<h2>Chapter I. <br/> The Dying Man</h2>

<p>Dr. Ringwood pushed his chair back from the dinner-table.
A glance at the clock on the mantelpiece told
him that on this evening he had been even later than
usual in getting home for dinner. The expression in his
eyes showed that he had gone short of sleep for some
time past; and when he rose to his feet, every
movement betrayed his over-tired condition.</p>

<p>“Bring my coffee to the study, please, Shenstone,”
he ordered. “And you might take the telephone in
there as well.”</p>

<p>He crossed the hall wearily, switched on the study
lights, and stood for a moment on the threshold as if
undecided what to do. A bright fire burned on the
hearth; the heavy pile of the carpet was soft to his
feet; and the big saddlebag armchairs spoke to him of
pure physical comfort and relaxation after the strain of
the day. He moved over to a table, hesitated again,
and then picked up a copy of the <i>B.M.J.</i> in its postal
wrapper. Taking a cigar from a box on the table, he
clipped it mechanically and sat down in one of the
chairs by the fire.</p>

<p>Shenstone drew a small table to Dr. Ringwood's
elbow and placed the coffee on it; then, retiring for a
moment, he returned with the telephone, which he
plugged to a connection in the room.</p>

<p>“Bring it over here, Shenstone. I want to be sure
that the bell will wake me if I happen to doze.”</p>

<p>Shenstone did as he was ordered and was about to
leave the room when Dr. Ringwood spoke again.</p>

<p>“Fog clearing off, by any chance?”</p>

<p>Shenstone shook his head.</p>

<p>“No, sir. Worse now than when you came in. Very
thick indeed, sir. One can't see even the nearest street
lamp.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood nodded gloomily.</p>

<p>“It's to be hoped no one wants me to go out this
evening. Difficult enough to find one's way about a
strange town in the daytime with a fog like this over
everything. But in the daytime there are always people
about who can give you some help. Nobody bar
policemen will be out to-night, I should think.”</p>

<p>Shenstone's face showed his sympathy.</p>

<p>“Very difficult for you, sir. If there's a night call,
perhaps you'd knock me up, sir, and I could go out with
you and help you to find your way. I'd be quite glad to
do it, sir, if I could be of any service. When Dr. Carew
went into the nursing home he specially impressed
on me that I was to give you every assistance I
could.”</p>

<p>A tired smile crossed Dr. Ringwood's face.</p>

<p>“Doubtful if you can see any further through pea-soup
than I can myself, Shenstone. Half the time, as I
was coming back for dinner, I couldn't see even the
pavement; so I'm afraid your local knowledge wouldn't
give you much of a pull. Thanks all the same. I've got a
map of the town and I'll try to find my way by it.”</p>

<p>He paused, and then, as Shenstone turned to go, he
added:</p>

<p>“Put a decanter—Scotch—and some soda on the
table over yonder. Then I shan't need to worry you
again to-night.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>

<p>As Shenstone left the room, Dr. Ringwood tore open
the wrapper of the <i>B.M.J.</i>, threw the paper into the
fire, and unfolded the journal. He scanned the contents
while sipping his coffee; but in a few minutes the bulky
magazine slipped down on to his knees and he resigned
himself completely to the comfort of his surroundings.</p>

<p>“Thank the Lord I didn't need to become a G.P.”
he reflected. “Specialism's a tough enough row to hoe,
but general practice is a dog's life, if this is a sample
of it.”</p>

<p>He picked up the <i>B.M.J.</i> again; but as he did so his
sharp ear caught the sound of the front door bell. An
expression of annoyance crossed his features and deepened
as he heard Shenstone admit some visitor. In a few
seconds the door of the study opened and Shenstone
announced.</p>

<p>“Dr. Trevor Markfield, sir.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood's face cleared as a clean-shaven man of
about thirty entered the room; and he rose from his
chair to greet the newcomer.</p>

<p>“Come in, Trevor. Try that pew beside the fire.
I've been meaning to ring you up ever since I came
last week, but I haven't had a moment. This 'flu
epidemic has kept me on the run.”</p>

<p>Trevor Markfield nodded sympathetically as he
moved towards the fire and extended his hands to the
blaze.</p>

<p>“I'd have looked you up before, but it was only this
morning I heard from someone that you were doing
<i lang="la">locum</i> for old Carew. It's a bit out of your line, isn't
it?”</p>

<p>“Carew's an old friend of ours; and when he went
down with appendicitis he asked me in a hurry to look
after his practice and I could hardly refuse. It's been
an experience, of sorts. I haven't had two hours
continuous sleep in the last five days, and I feel as if the
next patient runs the risk of a free operation. I'm fit to
bite him in the gizzard without anæsthetics.”</p>

<p>Markfield's stern features relaxed slightly.</p>

<p>“As bad as all that?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Oh, I don't mind real cases. But last night I was
called out at two in the morning, when I'd just got back
from a relapsed 'flu case. A small boy. ‘Dreadfully ill,
doctor. Please come at once.’ When I got there, it was
simply an acute case of over-stuffing. ‘It was his
birthday, doctor, and of course we had to let him do as he
liked on that day.’ By the time I'd got there, he'd
dree'd his weird—quite empty and nothing whatever
the matter with him. No apologies for dragging me out
of bed, of course. A doctor isn't supposed to have a bed
at all. I expect the next thing will be a fatal case of
ingrowing toe-nails. It's a damned nuisance to have
one's time frittered away on that sort of thing when
one's at one's wits end to do what one can for people
at the last gasp with something really dangerous.”</p>

<p>“Still got the notion that human life's valuable?
The war knocked that on the head,” Markfield
commented, rubbing his hands together to warm them.
“Human life's the cheapest thing there is. It's a blessing
I went over to the scientific side, instead of going in for
physicking. I'd never have acquired a good sympathetic
bedside manner.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood made a gesture towards the decanter
on the table.</p>

<p>“Have a spot?” he invited. “It's a miserable night.”</p>

<p>Markfield accepted the offer at once, poured out half
a tumblerful of whisky, splashed in a very little soda,
and drank off his glass with evident satisfaction. Putting
down the tumbler, he moved across and sat down by the
fire.</p>

<p>“It's an infernal night,” he confirmed. “If I didn't
know this end of the town like the palm of my hand,
I'd have lost my way coming here. It's the thickest fog
I've seen for long enough.”</p>

<p>“I'm in a worse box, for I don't know the town,”
Dr. Ringwood pointed out. “And we're not near the
peak of this 'flu epidemic yet, by a long way. You're
lucky to be on the scientific side. Croft-Thornton
Research Institute, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I came here three years ago, in 1925.
Silverdale beat me for the head post in the chemical
department; they gave me the second place.”</p>

<p>“Silverdale?” Dr. Ringwood mused. “The fellow
who works on alkaloids? Turned out a new condensate
lately as side-line? I seem to know the name.”</p>

<p>“That's him. He doesn't worry me much. I dine at
his house now and again; but beyond that we don't see
much of each other outside the Institute.”</p>

<p>“I've a notion I ran across him once at a smoker in
the old days. He played the banjo rather well.
Clean-shaven, rather neatly turned out? He'll be about
thirty-five or so. By the way, he's married now, isn't
he?”</p>

<p>A faint expression of contempt crossed Markfield's
face.</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, he's married. A French girl. I came across
her in some amateur theatricals after they arrived here.
Rather amusing at first, but a bit too exacting if one
took her on as a permanency, I should think. I used to
dance with her a lot at first, but the pace got a bit too
hot for my taste. A man must have some evenings to
himself, you know; and what she wanted was a
permanent dancing-partner. She's taken on a cub at
the Institute—young Hassendean—for the business.”</p>

<p>“Doesn't Silverdale do anything in that line
himself?”</p>

<p>“Not a damn. Hates dancing except occasionally.
They're a weird couple. Nothing whatever in common,
that I can see; and they've apparently agreed that each
takes a separate road. You never see 'em together.
She's always around with this Hassendean brat—a
proper young squib; and Silverdale's turned to fresh
woods in the shape of Avice Deepcar, one of the girls
at the Institute.”</p>

<p>“Serious?” Dr. Ringwood inquired indifferently.</p>

<p>“I expect he'd be glad of a divorce, if that's what
you mean. But I doubt if he'll get it, in spite of all the
scandal about Yvonne. If I can read the signs, she's just
keeping the Hassendean cub on her string for her own
amusement, though she certainly advertises her
conquest all over the shop. He's not much to boast about:
one of these young pseudo-romantic live-your-own-lifer's
with about as much real backbone as a filleted
sole.”</p>

<p>“A bit rough on Silverdale,” commented Dr.
Ringwood apathetically.</p>

<p>Trevor Markfield's short laugh betrayed his scorn.</p>

<p>“A man's an ass to get tied up to a woman. Silverdale
got caught by one side of her—oh, she's very attractive
on that side, undoubtedly. But it didn't last,
apparently, for either of them—and there you are! Outside
their own line, women are no use to a man. They want
too much of one's time if one marries them, and
they're the very devil, generally. I've no sympathy with
Silverdale's troubles.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood, obviously bored, was seeking for a
fresh subject.</p>

<p>“Comfortable place, the Institute?” he inquired.</p>

<p>Markfield nodded with obvious approval.</p>

<p>“First-rate. They're prepared to spend money like
water on equipment. I've just come in from the new
Research Station they've put up for agricultural
experiments. It's a few miles out of town. I've got a room or
two in it for some work I'm doing in that line.”</p>

<p>Before Dr. Ringwood could reply, the telephone bell
trilled and with a stifled malediction he stepped over to
the instrument.</p>

<p>“Dr. Ringwood speaking.”</p>

<p>As the message came through, his face darkened.</p>

<p>“Very well. I'll be round to see her shortly. The
address is 26 Lauderdale Avenue, you say? . . . I'll
come as soon as I can.”</p>

<p>He put down the telephone and turned to his guest.</p>

<p>“I've got to go out, Trevor.”</p>

<p>Markfield looked up.</p>

<p>“You said 26 Lauderdale Avenue, didn't you?” he
asked. “Talk of the Devil! That's Silverdale's house.
Nothing wrong with Yvonne, is there? Sprained her
ankle, or what not, by any chance?”</p>

<p>“No. One of the maids turned sick, it seems; and
the other maid's a bit worried because all the family
are out to-night and she doesn't know what to do
with her invalid. I'll have to go. But how I'll find
my way in a fog like this, is beyond me. Where is
the place?”</p>

<p>“About a couple of miles away.”</p>

<p>“That'll take a bit of finding,” Dr. Ringwood
grumbled, as he thought of the fog and his own sketchy
knowledge of the local geography.</p>

<p>Markfield seemed to reflect for a moment or two
before answering.</p>

<p>“Tell you what,” he said at last, “I've got my car at
the door—I'm just down from the Research Station. If
you like, I'll pilot you to Silverdale's. I'll manage it
better than you possibly could, on a night like this.
You can drive behind me and keep your eye on my
tail-light. You could get home again all right, I expect;
it's easier, since you've only got to find your way to
a main street and stick to it.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood made no attempt to dissemble his
relief at this solution of his difficulties.</p>

<p>“That's decent of you, Trevor. Just let me have a
look at the map before we start. I'll take it with me, and
I expect I'll manage to get home again somehow or
other.”</p>

<p>He glanced ruefully round the comfortable room and
then went to the window to examine the night.</p>

<p>“Thicker than ever,” he reported. “You'll need to
crawl through that fog.”</p>

<p>In a few minutes, Dr. Ringwood had put on his boots,
warned Shenstone to attend to the telephone in his
absence, and got his car out of the garage. Meanwhile
Markfield had started his own engine and was awaiting
the doctor at the gate.</p>

<p>“Hoot like blazes the moment you lose sight of me,”
he recommended. “If I hear your horn I'll stop and
hoot back. That should keep us in touch if the worst
comes to the worst.”</p>

<p>He climbed into his driving-seat and started slowly
down the road. Dr. Ringwood fell in behind. The fog
was denser than ever, and the headlights of the cars
merely illuminated its wreaths without piercing them.
As soon as his car had started, Dr. Ringwood felt that
he had lost touch with all the world except the
tail-light ahead of him, and a few square feet of roadway
immediately under his eyes. The kerb of the pavement
had vanished; no house-window showed through the
mist. From time to time the pale beacon of a
street-lamp shone high in the air without shedding any
illumination upon the ground.</p>

<p>Once the guiding tail-lamp almost disappeared from
view. After that, he crept up closer to the leading car,
shifted his foot from the accelerator to the brake, and
drove on the hand-throttle. His eyes began to smart
with the nip of the fog and his throat was rasped as he
drew his breath. Even in the saloon the air had a
lung-catching tang, and he could see shadows in it, thrown
by the nimbus of the headlights in the fog.</p>

<p>Almost from the start he had lost his bearings
and now he pinned his whole attention on Markfield's
tail-lamp. Once or twice he caught sight of tram-lines
beside his wheels and knew that they were in a main
thoroughfare; but this gave him only the vaguest
information of their position. The sound-deadening
quality of the vapour about him completed the sense
of isolation. Except for the faint beat of his own engine,
he seemed to be in a silent world.</p>

<p>Suddenly Markfield's horn surprised him, and he had
to jam on his brakes to avoid colliding with the car in
front of him. A shadowy figure, hardly to be recognised
as human, moved past him to the rear and vanished in
the fog-wreaths. Then once more he had to concentrate
his attention on the dim lamp ahead.</p>

<p>At last Markfield's car slid softly alongside a
pavement and came slowly to rest. Dr. Ringwood pulled up
and waited until his guide got down from his seat and
came back to him.</p>

<p>“We're just at the turn into Lauderdale Avenue.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood made no attempt to conceal his
admiration.</p>

<p>“That's a pretty good bit of navigation,” he said.
“I didn't notice you hesitate once in the whole trip.”</p>

<p>“I've a fairly good head for locality,” Markfield
returned carelessly. “Now all you have to do is to
turn to the left about ten yards further on. The
numbering starts from this end of the road, and the even
numbers are on the left-hand side. The houses are
villas with big gardens, so you've only got to keep count
of the gates as you pass them. Stick by the pavement
and you'll see the motor-entrances easily enough.”</p>

<p>“Thanks. I doubt if I'd have got here without you,
Trevor. Now what about the road home?”</p>

<p>“Come straight back along here. Cross three roads—counting
this as No. 1. Then turn to the right and keep
straight on till you cross tram-lines. That'll be Park
Road. Keep along it to the left till you've crossed two
more sets of tram-lines and then turn to the right.
That'll be Aldingham Street, at the Blue Boar pub.
You'll find your way from there simply enough, I
think. That's the easiest way home. I brought you by
a shorter route, but you'd never find it on a night like
this. See you again soon. 'Night!”</p>

<p>Without waiting for more, Markfield strode off to
his car and soon Dr. Ringwood saw the red star, his
only point of contact with the real world, slip away
from him and vanish in the fog. When it had gone, he
let his clutch in and began to grope his way laboriously
along the pavement-edge and into Lauderdale Avenue.</p>

<p>The fog was as thick as ever, and he had some
difficulty in detecting even the breaks at the edge of
the pavement which indicated the positions of house-gates.
The walls of the gardens were concealed behind
the climbing curtain of vapour. He counted seven
entrances and was well on the way to the next when
suddenly the roar of a horn made him lift his eyes to the
spaces ahead; two golden discs shone almost upon him
and only a wild wrench at the wheel saved him from a
collision as the strange car swept past on the wrong
side.</p>

<p>“Damn their eyes!” he grumbled to himself.
“People like that should be hanged. No one has a right
to go barging along at twenty miles an hour on a night
like this, hustling everyone out of their way. And on the
wrong side of the road, too.”</p>

<p>In his swerve he had lost touch with the pavement
and he now crept back to the left, steering in gently for
fear of rubbing his tyres on the kerb. Then he began
counting the gates once more.</p>

<p>“Eight . . . Nine . . . Ten . . . Eleven . . . Twelve. It's
the next one.”</p>

<p>He passed the next gate and drew up just beyond it.
Then reflecting that it was hardly safe to leave a car on
the street in a night like this, he got down from his seat
and went across the pavement to open the gate of the
short drive leading up to the house. The entrance was
clear, however, and he was about to return to his car
when a thought struck him and he lit a match to
examine the pillar of the gate.</p>

<p>“No number, of course!” he commented in
annoyance. “Ivy Lodge. This must be the place, anyhow.”</p>

<p>Returning to his car, he backed it past the gate and
then drove in and up the carriage-way. Just in time, as
he came near the front door, the lights of a standing car
warned him and he pulled up short to avoid a collision.
Shutting off his engine, he got out and approached the
house, passing a lighted window as he did so. The
standing car was empty, and he climbed the steps to
the front door, from which a light was shining. After
some searching he discovered the press-button and rang
the bell. The fog seemed thicker than ever; and as he
stood on the steps and gazed out into it, he could see no
lights except those of the empty motor and his own
headlamps. The house seemed completely isolated
from the world.</p>

<p>Growing impatient, as no one came to open the door,
he rang again; and then, after a shorter interval, he
held his finger down on the button until it seemed
impossible that anyone in the house could fail to hear
the sound of the bell. But still no one appeared. The
lighted rooms and the waiting car convinced him that
there must be someone on the premises; and once more
he set the bell in action.</p>

<p>As its notes died away again, he bent towards the
door and strained his ears to catch any sound of
movement within the building. At first he heard nothing; but
all at once something attracted his attention: a noise
like a muffled cough. Dr. Ringwood hesitated for only
a moment or two.</p>

<p>“Something damned queer about this house, it
seems to me,” he commented inwardly. “Technically
it's burglary, I suppose; but if the door's unlocked, I
think I'd better go in and look round.”</p>

<p>The door opened as he turned the handle, and he
stepped softly into the hall. Everything seemed normal
in the house. He could hear the ticking of a
grandfather's clock further back on the stairs; but the noise
which had first attracted his attention was not repeated.
Gently closing the door to shut out the fog, he stood for
a moment listening intently.</p>

<p>“Anybody here?” he demanded in a carrying
voice.</p>

<p>There was no answer; but after a short time he heard
again the sound which had puzzled him, evidently
coming from the lighted room on the ground floor.
Half a dozen swift steps took him to the door which he
flung open.</p>

<p>“Good God! What's wrong with you?” he ejaculated,
as his glance caught the only occupant of the
smoke-room into which he had come.</p>

<p>On a chesterfield, a fair-haired young man was lying
helpless. From the red stain on the lips, Dr. Ringwood
guessed at a hæmorrhage of the lungs; and the quantity
of blood on the boy's shirt-front and the dark pool on
the carpet pointed to the severity of the attack. The
youth's eyes caught the newcomer, and he beckoned
feebly to the doctor. Ringwood crossed to the chesterfield
and bent down. It hardly needed an expert to see
that assistance had come too late. The sufferer made an
effort, and the doctor stooped to catch the words.</p>

<p>“. . . Caught me . . . pistol . . . shot . . . thought it
was . . . all right . . . never guessed . . .”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood bent closer.</p>

<p>“Who was it?” he demanded.</p>

<p>But that broken and gasped-out message had been
the victim's last effort. With the final word, a cough
shook him; blood poured from his mouth; and he fell
back among the cushions in the terminal convulsion.</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood saw the jaw drop and realised that he
could be of no further service. Suddenly his weariness,
accentuated by the strain of the drive through the
fog, descended upon him once more. He straightened
himself with something of an effort and gazed down at
the body, feeling himself curiously detached from this
suddenly-emergent mystery, as though it were no
direct concern of his. Then, in his own despite, his
cool medical brain began to work as though by some
volition independent of his own. He drew out his
notebook and jotted down the few disjointed words which
he had caught, lest he should forget them later on.</p>

<p>Still held by the rigour of his training, he stooped
once more and made a close examination of the body,
discovering in the course of it two tiny tears in the
dress shirt which evidently marked the entries of the
bullets which had pierced the lungs. Then, his
inspection completed, he left the body undisturbed, noted
the time on his wrist-watch, and made a further jotting
in his pocket-book.</p>

<p>As he did so, a fresh idea crossed his mind. Had
there been more murders? What about the maids in
the house? The one who had rung him up must have
been somewhere on the premises, dead or alive.
Possibly the murderer himself was still lurking in the villa.</p>

<p>Too tired to think of risk, Dr. Ringwood set himself
to explore the house; but to his amazement he
discovered that it was empty. Nowhere did he see the
slightest sign of anything which suggested a divergence
from normal routine. The cloak-room showed that
two men lived on the premises, since he noted hats of
two different sizes on the pegs; and there appeared to
be three bedrooms in use, apart from the servants’
rooms on the upper floor.</p>

<p>The next step was obviously to ring up the police, he
reflected. The sooner this affair was off his shoulders,
the better. But at this point there flashed across his
mind the picture of a methodical and possibly slow
detective who might even be suspicious of Ringwood
himself and wish to detain him till the whole affair was
cleared up. That would be a nuisance. Then a way out
of the difficulty opened up before him. He remembered
paying a visit on the previous night to a butler down
with 'flu. When he had seen the patient, the man's
master had come and made inquiries about the case;
and Ringwood had been able to reassure him as to the
man's condition.</p>

<p>“What was that chap's name?” Ringwood questioned
his memory. “Sir Clinton Something-or-other.
He's Chief Constable or some such big bug. When in
doubt, go to headquarters. He'll remember me, I
expect; he didn't look as if much slipped past him.
And that'll save me from a lot of bother at the hands
of underlings. What the devil was his name? Sir
Clinton . . . Driffield, that's it. I'll ring him up.”</p>

<p>He glanced round the hall in which he was standing
but saw no telephone.</p>

<p>“It's probably in the smoke-room where the body is,”
he suggested to himself.</p>

<p>But though he searched all the likely places in the
house he was unable to find any instrument.</p>

<p>“They haven't a 'phone, evidently,” he was driven
to admit. “But in that case, I can't be in Silverdale's
house at all. This must be the wrong shop.”</p>

<p>Then he remembered the moment when the other
car had swept down upon him out of the fog.</p>

<p>“That probably explains it,” he said aloud. “When
I had to swerve out of his way, I must have missed
one of the entrance gates before I got back in touch
with the pavement again. If that's so, then obviously
I'm in the wrong house. But whose house is it?”</p>

<p>He re-entered the smoke-room and looked round in
search of some clue. A writing-desk stood over against
one of the walls, and he crossed to it and took up a
sheet of paper from a note-paper case. The heading
was what he wanted: “Ivy Lodge, 28 Lauderdale
Avenue, Westerhaven.”</p>

<p>“That's what happened,” he reflected, with a faint
satisfaction at having cleared the point up so simply.
“I'm next door to Silverdale's place, evidently, I can
'phone from there.”</p>

<p>It occurred to him that he had better be on the safe
side and make sure of his information by adding the
name of the householder when he rang up the Chief
Constable. A fresh search among the pigeon-holes of
the desk produced a letter in its original envelope
addressed to “Edward Hassendean, Esq.” Dr. Ringwood
put it down again and racked his memory for an
association with the name. He had paid only the most
perfunctory attention to Markfield's talk, earlier in
the evening, and it was some seconds before his mind
could track down the elusive data.</p>

<p>“Hassendean! That was the name of the cub who
was hanging round the skirts of Silverdale's wife, I
believe.”</p>

<p>He glanced at the body on the chesterfield.</p>

<p>“It might be that youngster. The police will soon
find out from the contents of his pockets, I expect.
Besides, the rest of the family will be home soon. They
must be out for the evening, and the maids too. That
accounts for the house being empty.”</p>

<p>He pulled out his pocket-book and scanned the note
he had made of the boy's disjointed utterance.</p>

<p>“Caught me . . . thought it was . . . all right . . .
never guessed . . .”</p>

<p>A flash of illumination seemed to pass across Dr.
Ringwood's mind as he re-read the words. In it he saw
a frivolous wife, a dissolute boy, and a husband
exasperated by the sudden discovery of an intrigue; a
sordid little tragedy of three characters. That seemed
to be a plain enough explanation of the miserable
affair. Markfield's suspicions had clearly been fairly
near the truth; if anything, they had fallen short of
the real state of affairs. Something had precipitated
the explosion; and Dr. Ringwood idly speculated for a
moment or two upon what could have led to the
husband's enlightenment.</p>

<p>Then he awoke to a fresh aspect of the affair. The
Hassendean family would be coming home again
shortly, or else the maids would put in an appearance.
The sooner the police were on the premises, the better.
In the meanwhile, it seemed advisable to prevent any
disturbance of things, if possible.</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood left the smoke-room, locked the door
after him, and removed the key, which he slipped into
his pocket. Then, making sure that the front door could
be opened from the outside when he returned, he went
down the steps and out into the fog once more.</p>

<h2>Chapter II. <br/> The House Next Door</h2>

<p>The box edging of the drive gave Dr. Ringwood
sufficient guidance through the darkness down to the
gate; and by following the garden wall thereafter, he
had little difficulty in making his way to the entrance
of No. 26. By the light of a match he read the name
<i>Heatherfield</i> on the gate-pillar, but here also there was
no distinguishing number. This time, however, there
could be no mistake and he groped his way cautiously
up the drive until the light over the front door shone
faintly through the fog.</p>

<p>As he went, a fresh complication in the situation
presented itself to his mind. What would be the effect if
he blurted out the news of the tragedy at Ivy Lodge?
If the maid at Silverdale's happened to be of a nervous
type, she might take fright when she heard of the
murder and might refuse to be left alone in the house
with only a sick companion. That would be very
awkward. Dr. Ringwood decided that his best course
would be to say nothing about the affair next door,
and merely make some simple excuse for going to the
telephone. If he could shut himself up while he
telephoned, she would learn nothing; if not, then he would
need to invent some pretext for getting her out of the
way while he communicated with the police.</p>

<p>He climbed the steps and pressed the bell-button. This
time he was not kept waiting, for almost immediately
the door opened and a middle-aged woman, apparently
a cook, peered nervously out at his figure framed in the
fog. Seeing a stranger before her, she kept the door
almost closed.</p>

<p>“Is that Dr. Ringwood?” she asked.</p>

<p>Then, as he nodded assent, she broke into a torrent
of tremulous explanation:</p>

<p>“I thought you were never coming, doctor. It's such
a responsibility being left with Ina upstairs ill and no
one else in the house. First of all, she was headachy;
then she was sick; and her skin's hot and she looks all
flushed. I think she's real ill, doctor.”</p>

<p>“We'll see about it,” Dr. Ringwood assured her.
“But first of all, I have to ring up about another
patient. You've a 'phone, of course? It won't take me
a minute; and it's important.”</p>

<p>The maid seemed put out that he did not go straight
to his patient; but she led the way to the cloakroom
where the telephone was fixed. Dr. Ringwood paused
before going to the instrument. He bethought himself
of a pretext to get this nervous creature out of earshot.</p>

<p>“Let's see,” he said. “I may need some boiling
water—a small jug of it. Can you go and put on a kettle
now, so that it'll be ready if I want it?”</p>

<p>The maid went off towards the kitchen, whereupon
he closed the door behind him and rang up. To his
relief, Sir Clinton Driffield was at home; and in less
than a couple of minutes Dr. Ringwood was able to
tell his story.</p>

<p>“This is Dr. Ringwood speaking, Sir Clinton. You
may remember me; I'm attending your butler.”</p>

<p>“Nothing wrong in the case, I hope?” the Chief
Constable demanded.</p>

<p>“No, it's not that. I was called here—Heatherfield,
26 Lauderdale Avenue, this evening. I'm Dr. Carew's
<i lang="la">locum</i> and a stranger in Westerhaven; and in this fog
I went to the wrong house—the one next door to here:
Ivy Lodge, 28 Lauderdale Avenue. Mr. Hassendean's
house. The place was lit up and a car was at the door;
but I got no answer when I rang the bell. Something
roused my suspicions and I went inside. The house was
empty: no maids or anyone on the premises. In a
smoke-room on the ground floor I found a youngster
of about twenty-two or so, dying. He'd been shot twice
in the lung and he died on my hands almost as I went
in.”</p>

<p>He paused; but as Sir Clinton made no comment,
Dr. Ringwood continued:</p>

<p>“The house hadn't a telephone. I came in here, after
locking the smoke-room door. I've a patient to see in
this house. How long will it take your people to get to
Ivy Lodge and take charge?”</p>

<p>“I'll be over myself in twenty minutes,” Sir Clinton
replied. “Probably the local police will be there about
the same time. I'll ring them up now.”</p>

<p>“Very well. I'll see to my patient here; and then I'll
go back to Ivy Lodge to wait for you. Someone ought
to be on the premises in case the maids or the family
come home again.”</p>

<p>“Right. I'll be with you shortly. Good-bye.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood, glancing at his watch, saw that it was
twenty minutes past ten.</p>

<p>“They ought to be here about a quarter to eleven,
if they can find their way in that fog,” he reflected.</p>

<p>Leaving the cloakroom, he made his way to the
nearest sitting-room and rang the bell for the maid.</p>

<p>“The water will be boiling in a minute or two,
doctor,” she announced, coming from the back
premises. “Will you need it before you go up to see
Ina, or shall I bring it up to you?”</p>

<p>“I may not need it at all. Show me the way,
please.”</p>

<p>She led him up to the patient's room and waited
while he made his examination.</p>

<p>“What is it, doctor?” she demanded when he came
out again.</p>

<p>“She's got scarlatina, I'm afraid. Rather a bad
attack. She ought to be taken to hospital now, but on
a night like this I doubt if the hospital van could get
here easily. Have you had scarlet yourself, by any
chance?”</p>

<p>“Yes, doctor. I had it when I was a child.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood nodded, as though contented by the
information.</p>

<p>“Then you don't run much risk of taking it from her.
That simplifies things. I'd rather not shift her to-night,
just in case the van lost its way. But if you can look after
her for a few hours, it will be all right.”</p>

<p>The maid did not seem altogether overjoyed at this
suggestion. Dr. Ringwood sought for some way out of
the difficulty.</p>

<p>“There's nobody at home to-night, is there?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. Mr. Silverdale hasn't been home since
lunch-time, and Mrs. Silverdale went out immediately
after dinner.”</p>

<p>“When will she be back?”</p>

<p>“Not till late, sir, I expect. Young Mr. Hassendean
came to dinner, and they went off in his car. I expect
they've gone to the Alhambra to dance, sir.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood repressed his involuntary movement
at the name Hassendean.</p>

<p>“When in doubt, play the medicine-man card,” he
concluded swiftly in his mind, without betraying
anything outwardly. It seemed possible that he might get
some evidence out of the maid before she became
confused by any police visit. He assumed an air of doubt as
he turned again to the woman.</p>

<p>“Did Mrs. Silverdale come much in contact with the
housemaid during the day?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. Hardly at all.”</p>

<p>“H'm! When did Mrs. Silverdale have dinner?”</p>

<p>“At half-past seven, sir.”</p>

<p>“Was this Mr. Hassendean here long before
dinner?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. He came in a few minutes before the
half-hour.”</p>

<p>“Where were they before dinner?”</p>

<p>“In the drawing-room, sir.”</p>

<p>“The maid had been in that room during the day, I
suppose?”</p>

<p>“Only just doing some dusting, sir. She had been
complaining of a sore throat and being out of sorts, and
she didn't do anything she could avoid bothering
with.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood shook his head as though he were not
very easy in his mind.</p>

<p>“Then Mrs. Silverdale and Mr. Hassendean went in
to dinner? Did the housemaid wait at dinner?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. By that time she was feeling very bad, so I
sent her to bed and looked after the dinner myself.”</p>

<p>“She hadn't touched the dishes, or anything of that
sort?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“And immediately after dinner, Mrs. Silverdale and
Mr. Hassendean went out?”</p>

<p>The maid hesitated for a moment.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. At least——”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood made his face grave.</p>

<p>“Tell me exactly what happened. One never can tell
with these scarlet cases.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, I was just going to bring in coffee when
Mr. Hassendean said: ‘Let's have our coffee in the
drawing-room, Yvonne. This room's a bit cold.’ Or
something like that. I remember he didn't want the
coffee in the dining-room, at any rate. So I went to get
it; and when I came back with it they were sitting
beside the fire in the drawing-room. I was going to take
the tray over to them, when Mr. Hassendean said:
‘Put it down on the table over there.’ So I put it down
and went away to clear the dining-room table.”</p>

<p>“And the housemaid had dusted the drawing-room
this morning,” Dr. Ringwood said thoughtfully. “Mr.
Hassendean wasn't long in the drawing-room after
dinner, was he?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. They didn't take very long over their
coffee.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood looked judicial and seemed to
consider some abstruse point before speaking again.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Silverdale didn't look ill during the day, did
she?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. But now you mention it, I did think she
seemed rather strange just before she went out.”</p>

<p>“Indeed? I was afraid of something of the sort. What
do you mean, exactly?” Dr. Ringwood demanded,
concealing his interest as well as he could.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it's hard to say exactly. She came out of
the drawing-room and went upstairs to get her cloak;
and as she came down again, I passed her in the hall,
taking some dishes to the kitchen. She seemed
dazed-like, now you mention it.”</p>

<p>“Dazed?”</p>

<p>“Funny sort of look in her eyes, sir. I can't describe
it well. Seemed as if she wasn't taking notice of me as I
passed.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood's face showed an increase in gravity.</p>

<p>“I'm afraid Mrs. Silverdale may have got infected
too. What about Mr. Hassendean?”</p>

<p>The maid considered for a moment before answering.</p>

<p>“I didn't notice anything strange about Mr.
Hassendean, sir. Unless, perhaps, he <em>did</em> seem a bit
nervous—high-strung like, I thought. But I'd never
have paid attention to it if you hadn't asked me the
question.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood made a gesture of approval, inwardly
thanking his stars for the lay public's ignorance of
diseases.</p>

<p>“And then they went off together?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Mr. Hassendean took the cloak from Mrs.
Silverdale and put it over her shoulders. Then he took
her arm and they went out to his car. It was waiting in
front of the door.”</p>

<p>“H'm! I suppose the housemaid hadn't touched the
cloak to-day?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir. She'd been in Mrs. Silverdale's room,
of course; but she wouldn't have any reason to go near
the cloak.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood feigned a difficulty in recollection.</p>

<p>“Hassendean! I surely know him. Isn't he about my
height, fair, with a small moustache?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. That's him.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood had confirmed his guess. It was young
Hassendean's body that lay next door.</p>

<p>“Let's see,” he said. “I may have to come back here
in an hour or so. I'd like to have another look at my
patient upstairs. Will Mrs. Silverdale be back by that
time, do you think?”</p>

<p>“That would be about half-past eleven, sir? No, I
don't think she'd be back as soon as that. She's usually
out until after midnight, most nights.”</p>

<p>“Well, you might sit up and wait for me, please. Go
to bed if I'm not here by twelve. But—— No, if you can
manage it, I think you ought to keep awake till Mrs.
Silverdale comes home. That patient shouldn't be left
with no one to look after her. I'm just afraid she may
get a little light-headed in the night. It's hard lines on
you; but you must do your best for her.”</p>

<p>“Very well, sir, if you say so.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps Mr. Silverdale will turn up. Is he usually
late?”</p>

<p>“One never can tell with him, sir. Some days he
comes home to dinner and works late in his study.
Other times he's out of the house from breakfast-time
and doesn't get back till all hours. He might be here in
five minutes now, or he mightn't come home till two
in the morning.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood felt that he had extracted all the
information he could reasonable expect to get. He gave
the maid some directions as to what she should do in
possible emergencies; then, glancing at his watch, he
took his departure.</p>

<p>As he went down the steps of the house, he found no
signs of the fog lifting; and he had to exercise as much
care as ever in making his way through it. He was not
unsatisfied with the results of his interrogation. Young
Hassendean had met Silverdale's wife by appointment,
evidently. They had dined together; and then
they had gone away in the fog. Clearly enough, from
what the maid said, both of them were in a somewhat
abnormal state when they left the house. ‘Dazed-like,’
‘a bit nervous—high strung.’ He recalled the expressions
with a faint annoyance at the vagueness of the
descriptions.</p>

<p>It seemed quite likely that, instead of going to a
dance-hall, they had simply driven round to Ivy Lodge,
which young Hassendean must have known to be
empty at that time. And there, something had
happened. The girl had gone away or been taken away,
and the youngster had been left to die. But where had
Yvonne Silverdale gone?</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood opened the door of Ivy Lodge and
took the key of the smoke-room from his pocket. The
house was silent as when he left it. Evidently no one
had come home.</p>

<h2>Chapter III. <br/> Sir Clinton at Ivy Lodge</h2>

<p>Dr. Ringwood left the smoke-room door open to
ensure that he would hear anyone who entered the
house. He made a second cursory inspection of young
Hassendean's body; but as he took care not to alter
the position of anything, he discovered no more than
he had done when he inspected it originally. There
seemed to be nothing further for him to do until the
police came upon the scene; so he picked out a
comfortable chair and let himself relax whilst he had the
chance.</p>

<p>The patient next door worried him a little. Perhaps
he ought to have got the girl off to hospital at once, fog
or no fog. It would be awkward if she turned delirious
in the night. And from that, his mind drifted to other
cases which were giving him anxiety. With this 'flu
epidemic, Carew's practice had been anything but the
nice, quiet, jog-trot business he had imagined it to be
when he promised to come as <i lang="la">locum</i>.</p>

<p>By some incongruous linking, his thoughts came back
to the events through which he had just passed. Death
was all in the day's work for a medical man, but he had
hardly bargained for murder. At least, he had hitherto
assumed that this was a case of murder, but possibly it
was suicide. He recalled that he had not seen any pistol;
and he felt a momentary inclination to search the room
for the weapon; but his fatigue was greater than his
interest, and he abandoned the project. After all, it was
an affair for the police, when they came to take charge;
it was no business of his.</p>

<p>Nevertheless, he could not shake off the subject of the
tragedy; and, despite himself, he began to speculate on
the possibilities of the situation. Suppose that, after
dinner, young Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale had
simply driven round to Ivy Lodge. That would account
for the empty car at the door. Then they must have
come into the house. He had found the door unlocked,
so that anyone could enter. That seemed rather a
peculiar point. Surely, if they had come here for the
only purpose which seemed covered by the case, they
would have taken the obvious precaution of closing the
front door against intruders. But if they had done that,
how could Silverdale have got in? He could hardly
have had a latch-key for his neighbours’ house.</p>

<p>It occurred to Dr. Ringwood that possibly Silverdale
might have gained admittance through some unlatched
window. He might have seen something through the
smoke-room window and got into the house like a
burglar. But all the curtains were tightly drawn. No
one could see in from the outside, even if they had
wished to do so. Obviously, then, it could not have
been a chance discovery of his wife's guilt that had
roused Silverdale to the pitch of murder. He must have
had his suspicions and deliberately tracked down the
guilty couple.</p>

<p>Almost against his will, Dr. Ringwood's mind
persisted in an attempt to reconstruct the happenings of
the night. Suppose Silverdale got in—no matter
how—then evidently he must have surprised the two; and
the end of that business had been the shooting of young
Hassendean. But that left Yvonne Silverdale and her
husband still unaccounted for. Had she fled into the
night before Silverdale could shoot her in her turn. Or
had her husband forced her to go with him—whither?
And if this were the truth of the matter, why had
Silverdale not locked the door? There seemed to be
many things needing explanation before one could feel
that the case was clear. Well, that was the business of
the police.</p>

<p>His train of thought was suddenly interrupted by the
sound of feet at the front door, and he pulled himself
together with a start and rose from his chair. He was
just moving towards the door when it opened and Sir
Clinton Driffield, accompanied by another man,
entered the room.</p>

<p>“Good evening, Dr. Ringwood,” the Chief
Constable greeted him. “I think we've managed to get
here at the time I promised, though it was a difficult
business with all this fog about.”</p>

<p>He turned to introduce his companion.</p>

<p>“This is Inspector Flamborough, doctor. He's in
charge of the case. I'm merely here as an onlooker. I've
given him the facts, so far as I know them from you;
but I expect that he may wish further information if
you have any.”</p>

<p>At Sir Clinton's words, the mouth under Inspector
Flamborough's tooth-brush moustache curved in a
smile, half-friendly and half-inscrutable. Simultaneously,
he seemed to be establishing good relations with the
doctor and appreciating some obscure joke in the
Chief Constable's remarks.</p>

<p>“It's very lucky you're a medical man, sir. Death's
all in the day's work with you and me; neither of us is
likely to be put off our balance by it. Most witnesses in
cases of this sort get so confused by the shock that it's
difficult to squeeze any clear story out of them. A
doctor's different.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood was not particularly susceptible to
flattery, but he recognised that the Inspector probably
was voicing his real sentiments. All three of them were
experts in death, and among them there was no need to
waste time in polite lamentations. None of them had
ever set eyes on the victim before that night, and there
was no object in becoming sentimental over him.</p>

<p>“Sit down, doctor,” Sir Clinton broke in, after a
glance at the medical man's face. “You look as if you
were about tired out. This 'flu epidemic must be taking
it out of you.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood did not wait to be asked twice. Sir
Clinton followed his example, but the Inspector,
pulling a notebook from his pocket, prepared to open
his investigation.</p>

<p>“Let's see, now, doctor,” he began pleasantly. “I'd
like to start from the beginning. You might tell us just
how you happened to come into the business; and if
you can give us some definite times, it'll be a great
help.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood nodded, but seemed to hesitate for a
moment before replying:</p>

<p>“I think I could give you it clearest if I were sure of
one thing first. I believe that's the body of young
Hassendean who lived in this house, but I haven't
examined it closely—didn't wish to disturb it in any
way before you turned up. If it is young Hassendean's
body, then I can fit some other things into my evidence.
Perhaps you'll have a look for yourselves and see if you
can identify him.”</p>

<p>The Inspector exchanged a glance with his superior.</p>

<p>“Just as you please, sir,” he answered.</p>

<p>He crossed the room, knelt beside the chesterfield,
and began to search the pockets in the body's clothes.
The first two yielded nothing in the way of identification,
but from one of the pockets of the evening waistcoat
the Inspector fished out a small card.</p>

<p>“Season ticket for the Alhambra,” he reported, after
glancing over it. “You're right, doctor. The signature's
here: Ronald Hassendean.”</p>

<p>“I was pretty sure of it,” Dr. Ringwood answered.
“But I like to be certain.”</p>

<p>The Inspector rose to his feet and came back to the
hearthrug.</p>

<p>“Now, perhaps, sir, you'll tell us the story in your
own way. Only let's have it clear. I mean, tell us what
you saw yourself and let's know when you're bringing
anything else in.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood had a clear mind and could put his
facts together in proper order. In spite of his physical
weariness, he was able to take each incident of the
evening in its proper turn and make it fit neatly into its
place in his narrative. When he had finished, he had
brought the story up to the point when the police
arrived. As he closed his tale, the Inspector shut his
notebook with a nod of approval.</p>

<p>“There's a lot of useful information there, doctor.
We're lucky in having your help. Some of what you've
told us would have cost a lot of bother to fish out of
different people.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton rose to his feet with a gesture which
invited the doctor to remain in his chair.</p>

<p>“Of course, doctor,” he pointed out, “a good deal
of your story is like What the Soldier Said—it isn't first-hand
evidence. We'll have to get it for ourselves, again,
from the people who gave it to you: Dr. Markfield and
this maid next door. That's only routine; and doesn't
imply that we disbelieve it in the slightest, naturally.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood agreed with a faint smile.</p>

<p>“I prefer getting a patient's symptoms at first-hand
myself,” he said. “Things do get distorted a bit in the
re-telling. And some of what I gave you is quite possibly
just gossip. I thought you ought to hear it; but most
certainly I don't guarantee its accuracy.”</p>

<p>The Inspector beamed his approval of the doctor's
views.</p>

<p>“And now, sir,” he said, glancing at Sir Clinton, “I
think I'd better go over the ground here and see if
there's anything worth picking up.”</p>

<p>He suited the action to the word, and began a
systematic search of the room, commenting aloud from
time to time for his companions’ benefit.</p>

<p>“There's no pistol here, unless it's hidden away
somewhere,” he reported after a while. “The murderer
must have taken it away with him.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face took on a quizzical expression.</p>

<p>“Just one suggestion, Inspector. Let's keep the facts
and the inferences in separate boxes, if you please.
What we really <em>do</em> know is that you haven't found any
pistol up to the present.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's grin showed that the Chief
Constable's shot had gone home without wounding his
feelings.</p>

<p>“Very good, sir. ‘Pistol <em>or pistols</em>, not found.’ I'll
note that down.”</p>

<p>He went down on hands and knees to examine the
carpet.</p>

<p>“Here's something fresh, sir,” he announced. “The
carpet's so dark that I didn't notice it before. The
pattern concealed it, too. But here it is, all right.”</p>

<p>He drew his fore-finger over the fabric at a spot near
the door, and then held it for their inspection, stained
with an ominous red.</p>

<p>“A blood-spot, and a fair-sized one, too! There may
be more of them about.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sir Clinton mildly. “I noticed some on
the hall-carpet as I came in. There's a trail of them
from the front door into this room. Perhaps you didn't
see them; they're not conspicuous.”</p>

<p>The Inspector looked a trifle crestfallen.</p>

<p>“I know you've a sharp eye, sir. I didn't spot them
myself.”</p>

<p>“Suppose we finish up this room before going
elsewhere. All the windows are fast, are they?” the Chief
Constable asked.</p>

<p>Flamborough examined them and reported that all
the catches were on. Then he gazed up and down the
room inquisitively.</p>

<p>“Looking for bullet-holes?” Sir Clinton questioned.
“Quite right. But you won't find any.”</p>

<p>“I like to be certain about things, sir.”</p>

<p>“So do I, Inspector. So does Dr. Ringwood, if you
remember. Well, you can be certain of one thing. If two
shots had been fired in here this evening, and if all the
windows had been left closed as they are now, then I'd
have smelt the tang of the powder in the air when we
came in. I didn't. Ergo, no shots were fired in this
room. Whence it follows that it's no use hunting for
bullet-holes. Does that chain of reasoning satisfy you,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>Flamborough made a gesture of vexation.</p>

<p>“That's true enough,” he confessed. “I ought to
have thought of it.”</p>

<p>“I think we've got the main points, now, so far as
this room itself goes,” Sir Clinton observed, without
paying any heed to the Inspector's annoyance. “Would
you mind examining the body, doctor, just to confirm
your view that he was shot in the lung?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood assented and, crossing over, he
subjected young Hassendean's body to a careful scrutiny.
A few minutes sufficed to prove that the only wounds
were those in the chest; and when the doctor had
satisfied himself that his earlier diagnosis was correct,
he turned to the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“There's no certainty without a P.M., of course,
but from the way the bullets have gone in, it's pretty
obvious that the shots took effect on the left lung.
There's very little external bleeding, apparently; and
that rather looks as if one of the intercostal arteries may
be involved. He must have bled a lot internally, I
suspect. Probably the P.M. will confirm that.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton accepted the verdict without demur.</p>

<p>“And what do you make out of things, Inspector?”
he demanded, turning to Flamborough.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, with these small-calibre pistols, it's
difficult to give more than a guess. So far as I can see,
it looks as if the pistol had been quite close-up when it
was fired. I think I can see something that looks like
scorching or discoloration on his dress shirt round about
the wound, though the blood makes it hard to be sure.
That's really as far as I'd like to go until I've had a
better chance of examining the thing.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned back to the doctor.</p>

<p>“I suppose a wound in the lung may produce death
at almost any length of time after the shot's actually
fired. I mean that a man may live for quite a long while
even with a wound like this and might be able to move
about to some extent after being shot?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood had no hesitation in agreeing with this.</p>

<p>“He might have lived for an hour or two—even for
days. Or else, of course, he might have collapsed almost
at once. You never can tell what will happen in lung
wounds.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to give this a certain
consideration. Then he moved towards the door.</p>

<p>“We'll take up the blood-trail now. You'd better
switch off the light and lock the door, Inspector. We
don't want anyone blundering in here and getting a
fright by any mischance.”</p>

<p>They went out into the hall, where Sir Clinton drew
the attention of the Inspector to the traces of blood
which he had noticed on the carpet.</p>

<p>“Now we'd better have a look at that car outside,”
he suggested.</p>

<p>As they descended the steps from the front door, the
Inspector took a flash-lamp from his pocket and
switched it on. Its rays merely served to light up the
fog; and it was not until they came almost to the side
of the car that they could see much. The Inspector bent
across, rubbed his finger over the driving-seat, and then
examined his hand in the light of the lamp.</p>

<p>“Some more blood there, sir,” he reported.</p>

<p>He cleaned away the marks on his finger-tip and
proceeded to explore the other seats in the same
manner. The results were negative. Apart from one or two
spots on the running-board at the driving-seat door,
the car seemed otherwise clean. Inspector Flamborough
straightened himself up and turned to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“It seems that he must have driven the car back
himself, sir. If someone else had done the driving, the
blood would have been on some of the other seats
instead of this one.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced with a gesture.</p>

<p>“I suppose that's possible, doctor? A wound in the
lung wouldn't incapacitate him completely?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood shook his head.</p>

<p>“It would depend entirely on the sort of wound it
was. I see nothing against it, <i lang="la">prima facie</i>. Driving a car
isn't really much strain on the body muscles.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton ran his eye over the lines of the car in the
light of the side-lamps.</p>

<p>“It's an Austin, so he'd be able to get the engine
going with the self-starter, probably, even on a night
like this. He wouldn't need to crank up the car. There
would be no exertion on his part.”</p>

<p>The Inspector had been examining the ground.</p>

<p>“It's frozen fairly hard,” he reported. “There's no
hope of tracing the car's track on a night like this, even
if one could have done that through all the marks of the
town traffic. That's a blank end.”</p>

<p>“You may as well take the number, Inspector. It's
just possible that some constable may have noticed it,
though the chances are about a thousand to one against
that, on a night of this sort.”</p>

<p>Flamborough went round to the rear number-plate
and jotted down the figures in his pocket-book,
repeating them aloud as he did so:</p>

<p>“GX.6061.”</p>

<p>He came round the car again and subjected the
whole interior to a minute scrutiny under the light of
his flashlamp.</p>

<p>“Here's a girl's handkerchief lying on the floor,” he
said, as he peered down at the place beside the driver.
Then, holding it in the light from the side-lamp, he
turned it over and reported.</p>

<p>“It's got ‘Y.S.’ embroidered in one corner. That
would be for Yvonne Silverdale, I suppose. It doesn't
take us much further. Except that it proves this was
the car she went off in with young Hassendean, and I
expect we could have got better proof of that
elsewhere.”</p>

<p>“Nothing else you can find?” Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>Before the Chief Constable could say anything
further, two figures loomed up through the fog and a
startled exclamation in a female voice reached the
group around the car. Sir Clinton caught Dr.
Ringwood's arm and whispered hurriedly in his ear:</p>

<p>“The maids coming back to the house. Spin them
a yarn that young Hassendean's met with an accident
and been brought home. Tell them who you are. We
don't want to have them in hysterics.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood moved towards the dim figures in
the fog.</p>

<p>“I'm Dr. Ringwood,” he explained. “I suppose
you're the maids, aren't you? You must go in very
quietly. Young Mr. Hassendean's had a bad accident
and mustn't be disturbed. He's in the room to the right
as you go in at the door, so don't make a fuss in the
house. You'd better get off to bed.”</p>

<p>There was a sound of rapid whispering and then one
of the maids enquired:</p>

<p>“Was it a motor accident, sir?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood, anxious not to commit himself to
details, made a gesture to the window behind him.</p>

<p>“Don't make a row, please. Mr. Hassendean mustn't
be disturbed in any way. Get off to bed as soon as you
can, and keep quiet. By the way, when do you expect
the rest of the family home?”</p>

<p>“They've gone out to play bridge, sir,” answered
the maid who had spoken before. “Usually they get
home about half-past eleven.”</p>

<p>“Good. I shall have to wait for them.”</p>

<p>The bolder of the two maids had advanced as he was
speaking, and now she stared suspiciously at him in the
dim light from the car lamps.</p>

<p>“Excuse me, sir,” she ventured. “How do I know
that it's all right?”</p>

<p>“You mean I might be a burglar, I suppose?”
Dr. Ringwood answered patiently. “Well, here's
Inspector Flamborough. He's surely protection enough
for you.”</p>

<p>The maid examined Flamborough with relief.</p>

<p>“Oh, that's all right, sir. I saw Inspector
Flamborough once at the police sports. That's him, right
enough. I'm sorry to have been a bit suspicious, sir——”</p>

<p>“Quite right,” Dr. Ringwood reassured her. “Now,
just get off to bed, will you. We've got the patient to
think about.”</p>

<p>“Is it a bad accident, sir?”</p>

<p>“Very serious, perhaps. Talking won't mend it,
anyhow.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood's temper was becoming slightly frayed
by the maid's persistence. However, she took the hint
and retired with her companion into the house.
Inspector Flamborough made a gesture which arrested
them at the door.</p>

<p>“By the way, when did young Mr. Hassendean leave
the house to-night?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“I couldn't say, sir. We left ourselves at seven
o’clock. Mr. Hassendean and Miss Hassendean were
just going out then—they were dining out. And Mr.
Ronald was dressing, I think. He was going out to
dinner, too.”</p>

<p>Flamborough dismissed them, and they vanished
into the hall. Sir Clinton gave them a reasonable time
to get out of the way before making any further move.
The Inspector occupied himself with writing a note in
his pocket-book.</p>

<p>“I think we may as well go into the house again,”
the Chief Constable suggested. “Just fasten that front
door after us, Inspector, if you please. We may as well
have some warning when the family turns up.”</p>

<p>He led the way up the steps, entered the hall, and,
after opening one or two doors at random, selected the
drawing-room of the house, in which a banked-up fire
was burning.</p>

<p>“We may as well wait here. It's to be hoped they
won't be long, now. Sit down, doctor.”</p>

<p>Then, noticing the expression on Dr. Ringwood's
face, he continued:</p>

<p>“I'm sorry to detain you, doctor; but now we've
got you, I think we'll have to keep you until the
Hassendeans come in. One never knows what may turn
up. They may have something to tell us which might
need medical checking and you've been too much of a
gift from the gods to part with so long as there's a
chance of our utilising you.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood tried to make his acquiescence a
cheerful one, though he was thinking regretfully of his
bed.</p>

<p>“It's all in the day's work,” he said. “I'm only a bit
worried about that case of scarlet next door. I'll have
to look in there before I go.”</p>

<p>“So shall we,” Sir Clinton explained. “Once we've
got all the evidence from the family, we'll need to ring
up and get the body taken off to the mortuary. You say
we can telephone from the house next door?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I had to go there to ring you up myself. The
Hassendeans have no 'phone.”</p>

<p>“We'll go round with you then. . . . H'm! There's
the door-bell, Inspector. You'd better attend to it.
Bring them in here, please.”</p>

<p>Flamborough hurried out of the room; they heard
some muffled talk broken by ejaculations of surprise
and horror; and then the Inspector ushered Mr. and
Miss Hassendean into the drawing-room. Dr. Ringwood
was unfavourably impressed at the first glance. Mr.
Hassendean was a red-faced, white-haired man of about
seventy, with a feebly blustering manner. His sister,
some five years younger, aped the air and dress of
women twenty years her junior.</p>

<p>“What this? What's this, eh?” Mr. Hassendean
demanded as he came into the room. “God bless
my soul! My nephew shot? What does it mean,
eh?”</p>

<p>“That's what we should like to know, sir,” Inspector
Flamborough's quiet voice cut into the frothing torrent
of the old man's eloquence. “We're depending on you
to throw some light on the affair.”</p>

<p>“On me?” Mr. Hassendean's voice seemed to strain
itself in the vain attempt to express his feelings at the
Inspector's suggestion. “I'm not a policeman, my
good fellow; I'm a retired drysalter. God bless me!
Do I look like Sherlock Holmes?”</p>

<p>He paused, apparently unable to find words for a
moment.</p>

<p>“Now, look here, my good man,” he went on, “I
come home and I find you occupying my house, and
you tell me that my young nephew has been shot. He's
a good-for-nothing cub, I admit; but that's beside the
point. I want to know who's to blame for it. That's a
simple enough question, surely. And instead of
answering it, you have the nerve to ask me to do your work
for you! What do we pay police rates for, tell me that!
And who are these men in my drawing-room? How
did they come here?”</p>

<p>“This is Sir Clinton Driffield; this is Dr. Ringwood,”
the Inspector answered smoothly, taking no notice of
Mr. Hassendean's other remarks.</p>

<p>“Ah! I've heard of you, Sir Clinton,” Mr.
Hassendean acknowledged, less ungraciously. “Well, what
about it?”</p>

<p>“We've met under rather unfortunate conditions,
Mr. Hassendean,” Sir Clinton admitted soothingly,
“but they're none of our choosing, you know. I quite
understand your feelings; it must be a bad shock to
come home to an affair like this. But I hope you'll see
your way to give us any information you have—anything
that will assist us to get on the track of the person
who shot your nephew. We really depend on you to help
us at once, for every hour lost may make it more
difficult to lay our hands on the criminal. Without
knowing it, you may have the key to the thing in your
hands.”</p>

<p>More by his manner than by his words, the
Chief Constable had succeeded in pacifying the
old man.</p>

<p>“Well, if it's put like that, I don't mind,” he
conceded, with a slight lessening in the asperity of his tone.
“Ask your questions and I'll see what I can do for
you.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood, watching the change in the situation,
reflected sardonically to himself that a title had its uses
when one came to deal with a snob.</p>

<p>“That old bounder was rude to the Inspector on
principle; but when Sir Clinton Driffield asks
precisely the same question, he's quite amenable,” he
thought to himself. “What a type!”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable, when he began his interrogatory,
was careful not to betray that he already had
some information.</p>

<p>“Perhaps we'd better begin at the beginning, Mr.
Hassendean,” he suggested, with the air of one
consulting a valued collaborator. “Could you throw any
light on your nephew's arrangements for this evening?
Did he mean to stay in the house, or had he any
outside engagement that you knew about?”</p>

<p>“He told me he was going out to dinner with that
hussy next door.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's smile further disarmed old Hassendean.</p>

<p>“I'm afraid you'll need to be more definite. There
are so many hussies nowadays.”</p>

<p>“You're right there, sir! You're right there. I agree
with you. I'm speaking of the French one next door,
her name's Silverdale. My nephew was always hanging
round her skirts, sir. I warned him against her, often
enough.”</p>

<p>“I always <em>knew</em> something would happen!” Miss
Hassendean declared with the air of a justified
Cassandra. “And now it <em>has</em> happened.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton returned to the main track.</p>

<p>“Have you any idea if he meant to spend the evening
next door?”</p>

<p>Miss Hassendean interrupted before her brother
could reply.</p>

<p>“He mentioned to me that he was going with her to
the Alhambra to dance. I remember that, because he
actually asked me where I was going myself to-night,
which was unusual interest on his part.”</p>

<p>“Scattering his money, of course!” her brother
rapped out angrily.</p>

<p>“He had money to scatter, then?” Sir Clinton asked
casually. “He must have been lucky for his age.”</p>

<p>For some reason, this reflection seemed to stir a
grievance in the old man's mind.</p>

<p>“Yes, he had about £500 a year of his own. A very
comfortable income for a single young man. And I had
to sit, sir, as his trustee; pay over the money quarterly
to him; and see it wasted in buying jewellery and whatnot
for that wench next door. I'm not a rich man, sir;
and I give you my word I could have spent it better
myself. But I'd no control over him, none whatever. I
had to stand by and see all that good money flung into
the gutter.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood turned aside to hide his smile at this
revelation of the drysalter's soul.</p>

<p>“By the way, who gets that money now?” Sir
Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“I do, sir. And I hope I'll put it to better use.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded in response to this sentiment, and
seemed to ponder before he asked his next question.</p>

<p>“I suppose you can't think of anyone who might
have had a grudge against him?”</p>

<p>The old man's glance showed some suspicion at
the question; but his sister seemed to have less
compunction, for she answered instead.</p>

<p>“I warned Ronald again and again that he was
playing with fire. Mr. Silverdale never took any open
offence, but . . .”</p>

<p>She left her sentence unfinished. Sir Clinton seemed
less impressed than she had expected. He made no
comment on her statement.</p>

<p>“Then I take it, Mr. Hassendean, that you can
throw no light on the affair, beyond what you have
told us?”</p>

<p>The old man seemed to think that he had given quite
enough information, for he merely answered with a
non-committal gesture.</p>

<p>“I must thank you for your assistance,” Sir Clinton
pursued. “You understand, of course, that there are
one or two formalities which need to be gone through.
The body will have to be removed for a <i lang="la">post mortem</i>
examination, I'm afraid; and Inspector Flamborough
will need to go through your nephew's papers to see if
anything in them throws light on this affair. He can do
that now, if you have no objections.”</p>

<p>Old Hassendean seemed rather taken back by this.</p>

<p>“Is that necessary?”</p>

<p>“I'm afraid so.”</p>

<p>The old man's face bore all the marks of uneasiness
at this decision.</p>

<p>“I'd rather avoid it if possible,” he grumbled. “It's
not for use in Court, is it? I shouldn't like that, not by
any means. To tell you the truth, sir,” he continued in
a burst of frankness, “we didn't get on well, he and I;
and it's quite on the cards that he may have
said—written, I mean—a lot of things about me that I
shouldn't care to have printed in the newspapers. He
was a miserable young creature, and I never concealed
my opinion about him. Under his father's will, he had
to live in my house till he was twenty-five, and a pretty
life he led me, sir. I suspect that he may have slandered
me in that diary he used to keep.”</p>

<p>“You'd better make a note about that diary,
Inspector,” Sir Clinton suggested in a tone which
seemed to indicate that Flamborough must be discreet.
“You needn't trouble yourself too much about it,
Mr. Hassendean. Nothing in it will come out in public
unless it bears directly on this case; I can assure you of
that.”</p>

<p>The drysalter recognised that this was final; but
he could hardly be described as giving in with a good
grace.</p>

<p>“Have it your own way,” he grunted crossly.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton ignored this recrudescence of temper.</p>

<p>“I'll leave the Inspector to see to things,” he
explained. “I'll go with Dr. Ringwood, Inspector, and do
the telephoning. You'd better stay here, of course, until
someone relieves you. You'll find plenty to do, I expect.”</p>

<p>He bade good-night to his involuntary host and
hostess and, followed by the doctor, left the house.</p>

<h2>Chapter IV. <br/> The Crime at Heatherfield</h2>

<p>“That's a fine old turkey-cock,” Dr. Ringwood
commented, as he and Sir Clinton groped their way down
the drive towards the gate of Ivy Lodge.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable smiled covertly at the aptness
of the description.</p>

<p>“He certainly did gobble a bit at the start,” he
admitted. “But that type generally stops gobbling if you
treat it properly. I shouldn't care to live with him long,
though. A streak of the domestic tyrant in him
somewhere, I'm afraid.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood laughed curtly.</p>

<p>“It must have been a pretty household,” he affirmed.
“You didn't get much valuable information out of
him, in spite of all his self-importance and fuss.”</p>

<p>“A character-sketch or two. Things like that are
always useful when one drops like a bolt from the blue
into some little circle, as we have to do in cases of this
sort. I suppose it's the same in your own line when you
see a patient for the first time: he may be merely a
hypochondriac or he may be out of sorts. You've
nothing to go on in the way of past experience of him.
We're in a worse state, if anything, because you can't
have a chat with a dead man and find out what sort
of person he was. It's simply a case of collecting other
people's impressions of him in a hurry and discarding
about half that you hear, on the ground of prejudice.”</p>

<p>“At least you'll get his own impressions this time, if
it's true that he kept a diary,” the doctor pointed out.</p>

<p>“It depends on the diary,” Sir Clinton amended.
“But I confess to some hopes.”</p>

<p>As they drew near the door of Heatherfield, Dr.
Ringwood's thoughts reverted to the state of things in
the house. Glancing up at the front, his eye was caught
by a lighted window which had been dark on his
previous visit.</p>

<p>“That looks like a bedroom up there with the light
on,” he pointed out to his companion. “It wasn't lit
up last time I was here. Perhaps Silverdale or his wife
has come home.”</p>

<p>A shapeless shadow swept momentarily across the
curtains of the lighted room as they watched.</p>

<p>“That's a relief to my mind,” the doctor confessed.
“I didn't quite like leaving that maid alone with my
patient. One never can tell what may happen in a
fever case.”</p>

<p>As they were ascending the steps, a further thought
struck him.</p>

<p>“Do you want to be advertised here—your name, I
mean?”</p>

<p>“I think not, at present, so long as I can telephone
without being overheard.”</p>

<p>“Very well. I'll fix it,” Dr. Ringwood agreed, as he
put his finger on the bell-push.</p>

<p>Much to his surprise, his ring brought no one to the
door.</p>

<p>“That woman must be deaf, surely,” he said, as he
pressed the button a second time. “She came quick
enough the last time I was here. I hope nothing's gone
wrong.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton waited until the prolonged peal of the
bell ended when the doctor took his finger away, then
he bent down to the slit of the letter-box and listened
intently.</p>

<p>“I could swear I heard someone moving about, just
then,” he said, as he rose to his full height again.
“There must be someone on the premises to account
for the shadow we saw at the window. This looks a bit
rum, doctor. Ring again, will you?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood obeyed. They could hear the trilling
of a heavy gong somewhere in the back of the
house.</p>

<p>“That ought to wake anyone up, surely,” he said
with a nervous tinge in his voice. “This is my second
experience of the sort this evening. I don't much care
about it.”</p>

<p>They waited for a minute, but no one came to the
door.</p>

<p>“It's not strictly legal,” Sir Clinton said at last,
“but we've got to get inside somehow. I think we'll
make your patient an excuse, if the worst comes to the
worst. Just wait here a moment and I'll see what can
be done.”</p>

<p>He went down the steps and disappeared in the fog.
Dr. Ringwood waited for a minute or two, and then
steps sounded in the hall behind the door. Sir Clinton
opened it and motioned him to come in.</p>

<p>“The place seems to be empty,” he said hurriedly.
“Stay here and see that no one passes you. I want to go
round the ground floor first of all.”</p>

<p>He moved from door to door in the hall, switching
on the lights and swiftly inspecting each room as he
came to it.</p>

<p>“Nothing here,” he reported, and then made his way
into the kitchen premises.</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood heard his steps retreating; then, after
a short interval, there came the sound of a door closing
and the shooting of a bolt. It was not long before Sir
Clinton reappeared.</p>

<p>“Somebody's been on the premises,” he said curtly.
“That must have been the sound I heard. The back
door was open.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood felt himself at a loss amid the
complexities of his adventures.</p>

<p>“I hope that confounded maid hasn't got the wind
up and cleared out,” he exclaimed, his responsibility for
his patient coming foremost in the confusion of the
situation.</p>

<p>“No use thinking of chasing anyone through this
fog,” Sir Clinton confessed, betraying in his turn his
own professional bias. “Whoever it was has got clean
away. Let's go upstairs and have a look round, doctor.”</p>

<p>Leading the way, he snapped down the switch at the
foot of the stair-case; but to Dr. Ringwood's surprise,
no light appeared above. Sir Clinton pulled a
flash-lamp from his pocket and hurried towards the next
flat; as he rounded the turn of the stair, he gave a
muffled exclamation. At the same moment, a
high-pitched voice higher up in the house broke into a
torrent of aimless talk.</p>

<p>“That girl's a bit delirious,” Dr. Ringwood
diagnosed, as he heard the sound; and he quickened
his ascent. But as he reached a little landing and could
see ahead of him, he was brought up sharply by the
sight which met his eyes. Sir Clinton was bending with
his flash-lamp over a huddled mass which lay on the
floor at the head of the flight, and a glance showed the
doctor that it was the body of the maid who had
admitted him to the house on his earlier visit.</p>

<p>“Come here, doctor, and see if anything can be done
for her,” Sir Clinton's voice broke in on his surprise.</p>

<p>He leaped up the intervening steps and stooped in his
turn over the body, while Sir Clinton made way for
him and kept the flash-lamp playing on the face. Down
the well of the stairs came the voice of the delirious
patient, sunk now to a querulous drone.</p>

<p>The briefest examination showed that the victim was
beyond help.</p>

<p>“We might try artificial respiration, but it would
really be simply time lost. She's been strangled pretty
efficiently.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face had grown dark as he bent over the
body, but his voice betrayed nothing of his feelings.</p>

<p>“Then you'd better go up and look after that girl
upstairs, doctor. She's evidently in a bad way. I'll
attend to things here.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood mechanically switched on the light of
the next flight in the stairs and then experienced a sort
of subconscious surprise to find it in action.</p>

<p>“I thought the fuse had gone,” he explained
involuntarily, as he hurried up the stairs.</p>

<p>Left to himself, Sir Clinton turned his flash-lamp
upwards on to the functionless electric light bracket
above the landing and saw, as he had expected, that the
bulb had been removed from the socket. A very short
search revealed the lamp itself lying on the carpet. The
Chief Constable picked it up gingerly and examined
it minutely with his pocket-light; but his scrutiny
merely proved that the glass was unmarked by any
recent finger-prints. He put it carefully aside, entered
the lighted bedroom, and secured a fresh bulb from
one of the lamp-sockets there.</p>

<p>With this he returned to the landing and glanced
round in search of something on which to stand, so that
he could put the new bulb in the empty socket. The
only available piece of furniture was a small table
untidily covered with a cloth, which stood in one corner
of the landing. Sir Clinton stepped across to it and
inspected it minutely.</p>

<p>“Somebody's been standing on that,” he noted.
“But the traces are just about nil. The cloth's thick
enough to have saved the table-top from any marks of
his boot-nails.”</p>

<p>Leaving the table untouched, he re-entered the room
he had already visited and secured another small table,
by means of which he was able to climb up and fix the
new bulb in the empty socket over the landing. It
refused to light, however, and he had to go to the foot
of the stairs and reverse the switch before the current
came on.</p>

<p>Shutting off his flash-lamp, Sir Clinton returned to
the landing and bent once more over the body. The
cause of death was perfectly apparent: a cord with a
rough wooden handle at each end had been slipped
round the woman's throat and had been used as a
tourniquet on her neck. The deep biting of the cord
into the flesh indicated with sufficient plainness the
brutality of the killer. Sir Clinton did not prolong his
examination, and when he had finished, he drew out
his pocket-handkerchief and covered the distorted face
of the body. As he did so, Dr. Ringwood descended the
stairs behind him.</p>

<p>“I'll need to telephone for the hospital van,” he said.
“It's out of the question to leave that girl here in the
state she's in.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded his agreement. Then a thought
seemed to strike him.</p>

<p>“Quite off her rocker, I suppose?” he demanded.
“Or did she understand you when you spoke to
her?”</p>

<p>“Delirious. She didn't even seem to recognise me,”
Dr. Ringwood explained shortly.</p>

<p>Then the reason for the Chief Constable's questions
seemed to occur to him.</p>

<p>“You mean she might be able to give evidence?
It's out of the question. She's got a very bad attack.
She won't remember anything, even if she's seen
something or heard sounds. You'd get nothing out
of her.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed no particular disappointment.</p>

<p>“I hardly expected much.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood continued his way down stairs and
made his way to the telephone. When he had sent his
message, he walked up again to the first floor. A light
was on in one of the rooms, and he pushed open the
door and entered, to find Sir Clinton kneeling on the
floor in front of an antique chest of drawers.</p>

<p>A glance round the room showed the doctor that it
belonged to Mrs. Silverdale. Through the half-open
door of a wardrobe he caught sight of some dresses;
the dressing-table was littered with feminine
knick-knacks, among which was a powder-puff which the
owner had not replaced in its box; a dressing-jacket
hung on a chair close to the single bed. The whole
room betrayed its constant use by some woman who
was prepared to spend time on her toilette.</p>

<p>“Found anything further?” Dr. Ringwood
inquired as Sir Clinton glanced up from his task.</p>

<p>“Nothing except this.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable indicated the lowest drawer in
front of him.</p>

<p>“Somebody's broken the lock and gone inside
in a hurry. The drawer's been shoved home anyhow
and left projecting a bit. It caught my eye when I
came in.”</p>

<p>He pulled the drawer open as he spoke, and Dr.
Ringwood moved across and looked down into it over
the Chief Constable's shoulder. A number of jewel-boxes
lay in one corner, and Sir Clinton turned his
attention to these in the first place. He opened them,
one after another, and found the contents of most of
them in place. One or two rings, and a couple of small
articles seemed to be missing.</p>

<p>“Quite likely these are things she's wearing
to-night,” he explained, replacing the leather cases in the
drawer as he spoke. “We'll try again.”</p>

<p>The next thing which came to his hand was a packet
of photographs of various people. Among them was one
of young Hassendean, but it seemed to have no special
value for Mrs. Silverdale, since it had been carelessly
thrust in among the rest of the packet.</p>

<p>“Nothing particularly helpful there, it seems,” was
Sir Clinton's opinion.</p>

<p>He turned next to several old dance-programmes
which had been preserved with some care. Lifting them
in turn and holding them so that the doctor could see
them, the Chief Constable glanced at the scribbled
names of the various partners.</p>

<p>“One gentleman seems to have been modest,
anyhow,” he pointed out. “No initials, even—just an
asterisk on the line.”</p>

<p>He flipped the programmes over rapidly.</p>

<p>“Mr. Asterisk seems to be a favourite, doctor. He
occurs pretty often at each dance.”</p>

<p>“Her dancing-partner, probably,” Dr. Ringwood
surmised. “Young Hassendean, most likely, I should
think.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton put down the programmes and searched
again in the drawer. His hand fell on a battered
notebook.</p>

<p>“Part of a diary she seems to have kept while she was
in a convent. . . . H'm! Just a school-girl's production,”
he turned over a few pages, reading as he went, “and
not altogether a nice school-girl,” he concluded, after
he had paused at one entry. “There's nothing to be got
out of that just now. I suppose it may be useful later
on, in certain circumstances.”</p>

<p>He laid the little book down again and turned once
more to the drawer.</p>

<p>“That seems to be the lot. One thing's pretty clear.
The person who broke that lock wasn't a common
burglar, for he'd have pouched the trinkets. The bother
is that we ought to find out what this search was for;
and since the thing has probably been removed, it
leaves one with a fairly wide field for guessing. Let's
have another look round.”</p>

<p>Suddenly he bent forward and picked up a tiny
object from the bottom of the drawer. As he lifted it,
Dr. Ringwood could see that it was a scrap of paper;
and when it was turned over he recognised it as a
fragment torn from the corner of an envelope with part
of the stamp still adhering to it.</p>

<p>“H'm! Suggestive rather than conclusive,” was
Sir Clinton's verdict. “My first guess would be that
this has been torn off a roughly-opened letter. So
there must have been letters in this drawer at one
time or another. But whether our murderous friend
was after a packet of letters or not, one can't say
definitely.”</p>

<p>He stood up and moved under the electric light in
order to examine the fragment closely.</p>

<p>“It's got the local post-mark on it. I can see the
VEN. The date's 1925, but the month part has been
torn.”</p>

<p>He showed the scrap to Dr. Ringwood and then
placed it carefully in his note-case.</p>

<p>“I hate jumping to conclusions, doctor; but it
certainly does look as if someone had broken in here to get
hold of letters. And they must have been pretty
important letters if it was worth while to go the length
of casual murder to secure them.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood nodded.</p>

<p>“He must have been a pretty hard case to murder a
defenceless woman.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face showed a faint trace of a smile.</p>

<p>“There are <em>two</em> sexes, doctor.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean? . . . Oh, of course. I said ‘<em>he</em>
must,’ and you think it might have been a woman?”</p>

<p>“I don't think so; but I hate to prejudge the case,
you know. All that one can really say is that <em>someone</em>
came here and killed that unfortunate woman. The
rest's simply conjecture and may be right or wrong.
It's easy enough to make up a story to fit the
facts.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood walked across to the nearest chair and
sat down.</p>

<p>“My brain's too fagged to produce anything of the
sort, I'm afraid,” he admitted, “but I'd like to hear
anything that would explain the damned business.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton closed the drawer gently and turned
round to face the doctor.</p>

<p>“Oh, it's easy enough,” he said, “whether it's the
true solution or not's quite another question. You came
here about twenty past ten, were let in by the maid,
saw your patient, listened to what the maid had to tell
you—lucky for us you took that precaution or we'd
have missed all that evidence, since she can't tell us
now—and left this house at twenty-five to eleven. We
came back again, just an hour later. The business was
done in between those times, obviously.”</p>

<p>“Not much theory there,” the doctor pointed out.</p>

<p>“I'm simply trying it over in my mind,” Sir Clinton
explained, “and it's just as well to have the time-limits
clear to start with. Now we go on. Some time after
you had got clear away from here, the murderer comes
along. Let's call that person X, just to avoid all
prejudice about age or sex. Now X has thought out this
murder beforehand, but not very long beforehand.”</p>

<p>“How do you make that out?” Dr. Ringwood
demanded.</p>

<p>“Because the two bits of wood which form the handles
of the tourniquet are simply pieces cut off a tree, and
freshly cut, by the look of the ends. X must have had
possession of these before coming into the house—hence
premeditation. But if it had been a case of long
premeditation, X would have had something better in
the way of handles. I certainly wouldn't have risked
landing on a convenient branch at the last moment
if I'd been doing the job myself; and X, I may say,
strikes me as a remarkably cool, competent person, as
you'll see.”</p>

<p>“Go on,” the doctor said, making no attempt to
conceal his interest.</p>

<p>“Our friend X probably had the cord in his or her
pocket and had constructed the rough tourniquet while
coming along the road. Our friend X was wearing
gloves, I may say.”</p>

<p>“How do you know that?” Ringwood asked.</p>

<p>“You'll see later. Now X went up to the front door
and rang the bell. The maid came along, recognised
X. . . .”</p>

<p>“How do you know that?” Ringwood repeated.</p>

<p>“I don't know it. I’m just giving you the hypothesis
you asked for. I don't say it's correct. To continue: this
person X inquired if Silverdale (or Mrs. Silverdale,
perhaps) was at home. Naturally the maid said no. Most
likely she told X that her companion had scarlatina.
Then X decided to leave a note, and was invited into
the house to write it. It was a long note, apparently;
and the maid was told to go to the kitchen and wait till
X had finished. So off she went.”</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>“X had no intention of putting pen to paper, of
course. As soon as the maid was out of the way, X
slipped upstairs and switched on the light in this
room.”</p>

<p>“I'd forgotten it was the light in this window that we
saw from the outside,” Dr. Ringwood interrupted.
“Go on.”</p>

<p>“Then, very quietly, by shifting the table on the
landing under the electric light, X removed the bulb
that lighted the stair. One can reach it by standing on
that table. Then X shifted the table back to its place.
There were no finger-prints on the bulb—ergo, X must
have been wearing gloves, as I told you.”</p>

<p>“You seem to have got a lot of details,” the doctor
admitted. “But why all this manœuvring?”</p>

<p>“You'll see immediately. I think I said already that
whoever did the business was a very cool and
competent person. When all was ready, X attracted the
maid's attention in some way. She came to the foot of
the stairs, suspecting nothing, but probably wondering
what X was doing, wandering about the house. It's
quite likely that X made the sick girl upstairs the
pretext for calling and wandering out of bounds. Anyhow,
the maid came to the foot of the stairs and moved the
switch of the landing light. Nothing happened, of
course, since the bulb had been removed. She tried the
switch backwards and forwards once or twice most
likely, and then she would conclude that the lamp was
broken or the fuse gone. Probably she saw the reflection
of the light from the room-door. In any case, she came
quite unsuspiciously up the stair.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton paused, as though to allow the doctor to
raise objections; but none came, so he continued:</p>

<p>“Meanwhile X had taken up a position opposite the
door of the room, at the foot of the second flight of
stairs. If you remember, a person crouching there in
semi-darkness would be concealed from anyone mounting
the first flight. The tourniquet was ready, of course.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood shuddered slightly. Apparently he
found Sir Clinton's picture a vivid one, in spite of the
casual tone in which it had been drawn.</p>

<p>“The girl came up, quite unsuspicious,” Sir Clinton
continued. “She knew X; it wasn't a question of a
street-loafer or anything of that sort. An attack would
be the last thing to cross her mind. And then, in an
instant, the attack fell. Probably she turned to go into
the lighted room, thinking that X was there; and then
the noose would be round her neck, a knee would be in
her back and . . .”</p>

<p>With a grim movement, Sir Clinton completed his
narrative of the murder more effectively than words
could have done.</p>

<p>“That left X a clear field. The girl upstairs was
light-headed and couldn't serve as a witness. X daren't
go near her for fear of catching scarlatina—and that
would have been a fatal business, for naturally we shall
keep our eye on all fresh scarlet cases for the next week
or so. It's on the cards that her scarlatina has saved her
life.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood's face showed his appreciation of this
point.</p>

<p>“And then?” he pressed Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“The rest's obvious. X came in here, hunting for
something which we haven't identified. Whatever it
was, it was in this drawer and X knew where it was.
Nothing else has been disturbed except slightly—possibly
in a hunt for the key of the drawer in case it
had been left lying around loose. Not finding the key,
X broke open the drawer and then we evidently
arrived. That must have been a nasty moment up here.
I don't envy friend X's sensations when we rang the
front door bell. But a cool head pulls one through
difficulties of that sort. While we were standing
unsuspiciously on the front door steps, X slipped down
stairs, out of the back door, and into the safety of the
fog-screen.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable rose to his feet as he concluded.</p>

<p>“Then that's what happened, you think?” Doctor
Ringwood asked.</p>

<p>“That's what <em>may</em> have happened,” Sir Clinton
replied cautiously. “Some parts of it certainly are
correct, since there's sound evidence to support them. The
rest's no more than guess-work. Now I must go to the
'phone.”</p>

<p>As the Chief Constable left the room, the sick girl
upstairs whimpered faintly, and Dr. Ringwood got out
of his chair with a yawn which he could not suppress.
He paused on the threshold and looked out across the
body to the spot at the turn of the stair. Sir Clinton's
word-picture of the murderer crouching there in
ambush with his tourniquet had been a little too vivid
for the doctor's imagination.</p>

<h2>Chapter V. <br/> The Bungalow Tragedy</h2>

<p>In the course of his career, Sir Clinton Driffield had
found it important to devote some attention to his
outward appearance; but his object in doing so had been
different from that of most men, for he aimed at making
himself as inconspicuous as possible. To look well-dressed,
but not too smart; to seem intelligent without
betraying his special acuteness; to be able to meet
people without arousing any speculations about
himself in their minds; above all, to eliminate the slightest
suggestion of officialism from his manner: these had
been the objects of no little study on his part. In the days
when he had held junior posts, this protective mimicry
of the average man had served his purposes excellently,
and he still cultivated it even though its main purpose
had gone.</p>

<p>Seated at his office desk, with its wire baskets holding
packets of neatly-docketed papers, he would have
passed as a junior director in some big business firm.
Only a certain tiredness about his eyes hinted at the
sleepless night he had spent at Heatherfield and Ivy
Lodge, and when he began to open his letters, even this
symptom seemed to fade out.</p>

<p>As he picked up the envelopes before him, his eye was
caught by the brown cover of a telegram, and he opened
it first. He glanced over the wording and his eyebrows
lifted slightly. Then, putting down the document, he
picked up his desk-telephone and spoke to one of his
subordinates.</p>

<p>“Has Inspector Flamborough come in?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. He's here just now.”</p>

<p>“Send him along to me, please.”</p>

<p>Replacing the telephone on its bracket, Sir Clinton
picked up the telegram once more and seemed to
reconsider its wording. He looked up as someone knocked on
the door and entered the room.</p>

<p>“Morning, Inspector. You're looking a bit tired. I
suppose you've fixed up all last night's business?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Both bodies are in the mortuary; the
doctor's been warned about the P.M.’s; the coroner's
been informed about the inquests. And I've got young
Hassendean's papers all collected. I haven't had time
to do more than glance through them yet, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton gave a nod of approval and flipped the
telegram across his desk.</p>

<p>“Sit down and have a look at that, Inspector. You
can add it to your collection.”</p>

<p>Flamborough secured the slip of paper and glanced
over it as he pulled a chair towards the desk.</p>

<p>“ ‘<i>Chief Constable, Westerhaven. Try hassendean bungalow
lizardbridge road justice.</i>’ H'm! Handed in at the
G.P.O. at 8.5 a.m. this morning. Seems to err a bit on
the side of conciseness. He could have had three more
words for his bob, and they wouldn't have come amiss.
Who sent it, sir?”</p>

<p>“A member of the Order of the Helpful Hand,
perhaps. I found it on my desk when I came in a few
minutes ago. Now you know as much about it as I do,
Inspector.”</p>

<p>“One of these amateur sleuths, you think, sir?”
asked the Inspector, and the sub-acid tinge in his tone
betrayed his opinion of uninvited assistants. “I had
about my fill of that lot when we were handling that
Laxfield affair last year.”</p>

<p>He paused for a moment, and then continued:</p>

<p>“He's been pretty sharp with his help. It's handed
in at 8.5 a.m. and the only thing published about the
affair is a stop-press note shoved into the <i>Herald</i>. I
bought a copy as I came along the road. Candidly, sir,
it looks to me like a leg-pull.”</p>

<p>He glanced over the telegram disparagingly.</p>

<p>“What does he mean by ‘Lizardbridge road
justice’? There's no J.P. living on the Lizardbridge
Road; and even if there were, the thing doesn't make
sense to me.”</p>

<p>“I think ‘justice’ is the signature, Inspector—what
one might term his <i lang="fr">nom-de-kid</i>, if one leaned towards
slang, which of course you never do.”</p>

<p>The Inspector grinned. His unofficial language
differed considerably from his official vocabulary, and
Sir Clinton knew it.</p>

<p>“Justice? I like that!” Flamborough ejaculated
contemptuously, as he put the telegram down on the
desk.</p>

<p>“It looks rather as though he wanted somebody's
blood,” Sir Clinton answered carelessly. “But all the
same, Inspector, we can't afford to put it into the
waste-paper basket. We're very short of anything you could
call a real clue in both these cases last night, remember.
It won't do to neglect this, even if it does turn out to
be a mare's nest.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough shrugged his shoulders
almost imperceptibly, as though to indicate that the
decision was none of his.</p>

<p>“I'll send a man down to the G.P.O. to make
inquiries at once, sir, if you think it necessary. At that
time in the morning there can't have been many wires
handed in and we ought to be able to get some
description of the sender.”</p>

<p>“Possibly,” was as far as Sir Clinton seemed
inclined to go. “Send off your man, Inspector. And while
he's away, please find out something about this
Hassendean Bungalow, as our friend calls it. It's bound
to be known to the Post Office people, and you'd better
get on the local P.O. which sends out letters to it. The
man who delivers the post there will be able to tell you
something about it. Get the 'phone to work at once. If
it's a hoax, we may as well know that at the earliest
moment.”</p>

<p>“Very well, sir,” said the Inspector, recognising that
it was useless to convert Sir Clinton to his own view.</p>

<p>He picked up the telegram, put it in his pocket, and
left the room.</p>

<p>When the Inspector had gone, Sir Clinton ran
rapidly through his letters, and then turned to the
documents in the wire baskets. He had the knack of
working his mind by compartments when he chose, and
it was not until Flamborough returned with his report
that the Chief Constable gave any further thought to
the Hassendean case. He knew that the Inspector could
be trusted to get the last tittle of useful information
when he had been ordered to do so.</p>

<p>“The Hassendeans <em>have</em> a bungalow on the
Lizardbridge Road, sir,” Flamborough confessed when he
came back once more. “I got the local postman to the
'phone and he gave me as much as one could expect.
Old Hassendean built the thing as a spec., hoping to
get a good price for it. Ran it up just after the war. But
it cost too much, and he's been left with it on his hands.
It's just off the road, on the hill about half-way between
here and the new place they've been building lately,
that farm affair.”</p>

<p>“Oh, there?” Sir Clinton answered. “I think I
know the place. I've driven past it often: a brown-tiled
roof and a lot of wood on the front of the house.”</p>

<p>“That's it, sir. The postman described it to me.”</p>

<p>“Anything more about it?”</p>

<p>“It's empty most of the year, sir. The Hassendeans
use it as a kind of summer place—shift up there in the
late spring, usually, the postman said. It overlooks the
sea and stands high, you remember. Plenty of fresh air.
But it's shut up just now, sir. They came back to town
over two months ago—middle of September or
thereabouts.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to wake up suddenly.</p>

<p>“That fails to stir you, Inspector? Strange! Now it
interests me devilishly, I can assure you. We'll run up
there now in my car.”</p>

<p>The Inspector was obviously disconcerted by this
sudden desire for travel.</p>

<p>“It's hardly worth your while to go all that way,
sir,” he protested. “I can easily go out myself if you
think it necessary.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton signed a couple of documents before
replying. Then he rose from his chair.</p>

<p>“I don't mind saying, Inspector, that two murders
within three hours is too high an average for my taste
when they happen in my district. It's a case of all hands
to the pumps, now, until we manage to get on the track.
I'm not taking the thing out of your hands. It's simply
going on the basis that two heads are better than one.
We've got to get to the bottom of the business as quick
as we can.”</p>

<p>“I quite understand, sir,” Flamborough
acknowledged without pique. “There's no grudge in the
matter. I'm only afraid that this business is a practical
joke and you'll be wasting your time.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton dissented from the last statement with a
movement of his hand.</p>

<p>“By the way,” he added, “we ought to take a
doctor with us. If there's anything in the thing at all,
I've a feeling that Mr. Justice hasn't disturbed us for a
trifle. Let's see. Dr. Steel will have his hands full with
things just now; we'll need to get someone else. That
Ringwood man has his wits about him, from what I saw
of him. Ring him up, Inspector, and ask him if he can
spare the time. Tell him what it's about, and if he's the
sportsman I take him for, he'll come if he can manage
it. Tell him we'll call for him in ten minutes and bring
him home again as quick as we can. And get them to
bring my car round now.”</p>

<p>Twenty minutes later, as they passed up an avenue,
Sir Clinton turned to Dr. Ringwood:</p>

<p>“Recognise it, doctor?”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood shook his head.</p>

<p>“Never seen it before to my knowledge.”</p>

<p>“You were here last night, though. Look, there's Ivy
Lodge.”</p>

<p>“So I see by the name on the gate-post. But remember
it's the first time I've seen the house itself. The fog
hid everything last night.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton swung the car to the left at the end of the
avenue.</p>

<p>“We shan't be long now. It's a straight road out
from here to the place we're bound for.”</p>

<p>As they reached the outskirts of Westerhaven, Sir
Clinton increased his speed, and in a very short time
Dr. Ringwood found himself approaching a long low
bungalow which faced the sea-view at a little distance
from the road. It had been built in the shelter of a
plantation, the trees of which dominated it on one side;
and the garden was dotted with clumps of quick-growing
shrubs which helped to give it the appearance
of maturity.</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough stepped down from the back
seat of the car as Sir Clinton drew up.</p>

<p>“The gate's not locked,” he reported, as he went up
to it. “Just wait a moment, sir, while I have a look at
the surface of the drive.”</p>

<p>He walked a short distance towards the house, with
his eyes on the ground; then he returned and swung
the leaves of the gate open for the car to pass.</p>

<p>“You can drive in, sir,” he reported. “The ground
was hard last night, you remember; and there isn't a
sign of anything in the way of footmarks or
wheel-prints to be seen there.”</p>

<p>As the car passed him, he swung himself aboard
again; and Sir Clinton drove up to near the house.</p>

<p>“We'll get down here, I think, and walk the rest,”
he proposed, switching off his engine. “Let's see.
Curtains all drawn. . . . Hullo! One of the small panes of
glass on that front window has been smashed, just at the
lever catch. You owe an apology to Mr. Justice,
Inspector, I think. He's not brought us here to an
absolute mare's nest, at any rate. There's been
housebreaking going on.”</p>

<p>Followed by the others, he walked over to the
damaged window and examined it carefully.</p>

<p>“No foot-prints or anything of that sort to be
seen,” he pointed out, glancing at the window-sill.
“The window's been shut, apparently, after the
housebreaker got in—if he did get in at all. That would
be an obvious precaution, in case the open window
caught someone's eye.”</p>

<p>He transferred his attention to the casement itself. It
was a steel-framed one, some four feet high by twenty
inches wide, which formed part of a set of three which
together made up the complete window. Steel bars
divided it into eight small panes.</p>

<p>“The Burglar's Delight!” Sir Clinton described it
scornfully. “You knock in one pane, just like this;
then you put your hand through; turn the lever-fastener;
swing the casement back on its hinges—and
walk inside. There isn't even the trouble of hoisting a
sash as you have to do with the old-fashioned window.
Two seconds would see you inside the house, with only
this affair to tackle.”</p>

<p>He glanced doubtfully at the lever handle behind the
broken glass.</p>

<p>“There might be finger-prints on that,” he said. “I
don't want to touch it. Just go round to the front door,
Inspector, and see if it's open by any chance. If not,
we'll smash the glass at the other end of this window
and use the second casement to get in by, so as not to
confuse things.”</p>

<p>When the Inspector had reported the front door
locked, the Chief Constable carried out his proposal;
the untouched casement swung open, and they
prepared to enter the room, which hitherto had been
concealed from them by the drawn curtains. Sir
Clinton led the way, and as he pushed the curtain out
of his road, his companions heard a bitten-off
exclamation.</p>

<p>“Not much of a mare's nest, Inspector,” he
continued in a cooler tone. “Get inside.”</p>

<p>The Inspector, followed by Dr. Ringwood, climbed
through the open casement and stared in astonishment
at the sight before them. The place they had entered
was evidently one of the sitting-rooms of the bungalow,
and the dust-sheets which covered the furniture
indicated that the building had been shut up for the
winter. In a big arm-chair, facing them as they entered,
sat the body of a girl in evening dress with a cloak
around her shoulders. A slight trail of blood had oozed
from a wound in her head and marked her shoulder
on the right side. On the floor at her feet lay an
automatic pistol. One or two small chairs seemed to have
been displaced roughly in the room, as though some
struggle had taken place; but the attitude of the girl in
the chair was perfectly natural. It seemed as though she
had sat down merely to rest and death had come upon
her without any warning, for her face had no tinge of
fear in its expression.</p>

<p>“I wasn't far out in putting my money on Mr.
Justice, Inspector,” Sir Clinton said thoughtfully, as he
gazed at the dead girl. “It might have been days before
we came across this affair without his help.”</p>

<p>He glanced round the room for a moment, biting his
lip as though perplexed by some problem.</p>

<p>“We'd better have a general look round before
touching the details,” he suggested, at last; and he led
the way out of the room into the hall of the bungalow.
“We'll try the rooms as we come to them.”</p>

<p>Suiting the action to the word, he opened the first
door that came to hand. It proved to be that of a
dismantled bedroom. The dressing-table was bare and
everything had been removed from the bed expect a
wire mattress. The second door led into what was
obviously the dining-room of the bungalow; and here
again the appearance of the room showed that the
house had been shut up for the season. A third trial
revealed a lavatory.</p>

<p>“H'm! Clean towels hanging on the rail?” Sir
Clinton pointed out. “That's unusual in an empty
house, isn't it?”</p>

<p>Without waiting for a minuter examination, he
turned to the next door.</p>

<p>“Some sort of store-room, apparently. These
mattresses belong to the beds, obviously.”</p>

<p>Along one side of the little room were curtained
shelves. Sir Clinton slid back the curtains and revealed
the stacked house-napery, towels, and sheets.</p>

<p>“Somebody seems to have been helping themselves
here,” he indicated, drawing his companions’ attention
to one or two places where the orderly piling of the
materials had been disturbed by careless withdrawals.
“We'll try again.”</p>

<p>The next room provided a complete contrast to the
rest of the house. It was a bedroom with all its fittings
in place. The bed, fully made up, had obviously not
been slept in. The dressing-table was covered with the
usual trifles which a girl uses in her toilette. Vases,
which obviously did not belong to the normal equipment
of the room, had been collected here and filled
with a profusion of expensive flowers. Most surprising
of all, an electric stove, turned on at half power, kept
the room warm.</p>

<p>“She's been living here!” the Inspector exclaimed
in a tone which revealed his astonishment.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made a gesture of dissent. He crossed the
room, and threw open the door of a cupboard
wardrobe, revealing empty hooks and shelves.</p>

<p>“She'd hardly be living here with nothing but an
evening frock in the way of clothes, would she?” he
asked. “You can look round if you like, Inspector; but
I'm prepared to bet that she never set foot in this room.
You won't find much.”</p>

<p>He stepped over to the dressing-table and examined
one by one the knick-knacks placed upon it.</p>

<p>“These things are all split-new, Inspector. Look at
this face-powder box—not been opened, the band's
still intact on it. And the lip-stick's unused. You can see
that at a glance.”</p>

<p>Flamborough had to admit the truth of his superior's
statements.</p>

<p>“H'm!” he reflected. “Of course it's Mrs.
Silverdale, I suppose, sir?”</p>

<p>“I should think so, but we can make sure about it
very soon. In the meantime, let's finish going round
the premises.”</p>

<p>The rest of the survey revealed very little. The
remainder of the house was obviously dismantled for
the winter. Only once did Sir Clinton halt for any
time, and that was in the pantry. Here he examined the
cups suspended from hooks on the wall and pointed
out to Flamborough the faint film of accumulated dust
on each of them.</p>

<p>“None of that crockery has been used for weeks,
Inspector. One can't live in a house without eating and
drinking, you know.”</p>

<p>“A port of call, then?” the Inspector persisted.
“She and young Hassendean could drop in here
without rousing any suspicion.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps,” Sir Clinton conceded abstractedly.
“Now we'll get Dr. Ringwood to give his assistance.”</p>

<p>He led the way back to the room through which they
had entered the house.</p>

<p>“She was dead before that shot was fired, of course,”
he said as they crossed the threshold. “But beyond that
there ought to be something to be seen.”</p>

<p>“What makes you so sure that the shot didn't kill
her, sir?” the Inspector demanded.</p>

<p>“Because there wasn't half enough blood scattered
about the place. She was dead when the shot was
fired—must have been dead for some minutes, I suspect.
There was no heart-action to lift the blood in her body,
so consequently it sank under gravity and left her skull
nearly empty of it. Then when the shot was fired, only
the merest trickle came from the wound. I think that's
right, isn't it, doctor?”</p>

<p>“It's quite on the cards,” Dr. Ringwood agreed.
“Certainly there wasn't the normal amount of bleeding
that one might have expected.”</p>

<p>“Then the really important point is: how did she
come to die. This is where we rely on you, doctor. Go
ahead, please, and see what you make of it.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood went over to the arm-chair and began
his examination of the dead girl. His glance travelled
first to the open eyes, which seemed curiously dark;
and a very brief inspection of their abnormal
appearance suggested one possible verdict.</p>

<p>“It looks as if she'd had a dose of one of these
mydriatic drugs—atropine, or something of that sort.
The eye-pupils are markedly dilated,” he pronounced.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refrained from glancing at the Inspector.</p>

<p>“I suppose you couldn't make a guess at the time of
death?” he inquired.</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood tested the stiffness of the limbs, but
from his face they gathered that it was almost a purely
formal experiment.</p>

<p>“I'm not going to bluff about the thing. You know
yourselves that <i lang="la">rigor mortis</i> is only the roughest test;
and when there's an unknown poison to complicate
matters, I simply couldn't give you a figure that would
be worth the breath spent on it. She's been dead for
some hours—and you could have guessed that for
yourselves.”</p>

<p>“Congratulations, doctor! There are so few people
in this world who have the honesty to say: ‘I don't
know,’ when they're questioned on their own speciality.
Now you might have a look at the wound, if you don't
mind.”</p>

<p>While Dr. Ringwood was carrying out this part of his
examination, Inspector Flamborough occupied himself
in a search of the room. An ejaculation from him
brought Sir Clinton to his side, and the Inspector
pointed to a dark patch on the floor which had hitherto
been concealed by one of the displaced chairs.</p>

<p>“There's quite a big pool of blood here, sir,” he said
tilting the chair so that the Chief Constable could see it
better. “What do you make of that?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked at him quizzically.</p>

<p>“Think you've caught me tripping, Inspector? Not
in this, I'm afraid. That's not the girl's blood at all.
Unless I'm far out, it's young Hassendean's. Now,
while you're about it, will you have a good look for
empty cartridge-cases on the floor. There ought to be
three of them.”</p>

<p>The Inspector set to work, industriously grovelling
on the floor as he searched under the heavier articles
of furniture in the room.</p>

<p>“Well, doctor, what do you make of it?” Sir Clinton
asked, when he saw that Ringwood had completed his
examination.</p>

<p>“It's plain enough on the surface,” the doctor
answered, as he turned away from the body. “She
must have been shot at quite close quarters, just above
the ear. Her hair is singed with the flame of the powder.
The bullet went clean through the head and then into
the padded ear-piece of the chair. I expect it's stuck
there. You can see for yourself that the shot didn't
produce any twitch in the body; the position she's sitting
in shows that well enough. I'm quite prepared to bet
that she was dead before the shot was fired.”</p>

<p>“The P.M. will clear that up for us definitely, if the
poison can be detected,” Sir Clinton answered. “But
these vegetable poisons are sometimes the very devil to
spot, if they're at all out-of-the-way ones.”</p>

<p>He turned back to the Inspector, who was now on his
feet again, dusting the knees of his trousers.</p>

<p>“I've found three cartridge-cases sure enough, sir,”
he reported. “Two of them are under that couch over
there; the third's in the corner near the window. I
didn't pick them up. We'll need to make a plan of this
room, I expect; and it's safest to leave things as they
are, so as to be sure of the exact spots.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton signified his approval.</p>

<p>“On the face of things, judging by the way an
automatic ejects its cartridge, one might say that the
single case near the window came from the shot that
killed the girl. The other two, which landed somewhere
near each other, might represent the two shots that
made the wounds in young Hassendean's lung. But
that's mere speculation. Let's have a look at the pistol,
Inspector.”</p>

<p>Flamborough put his hand into his waistcoat
pocket, stooped down, picked up the pistol gingerly,
and drew a rough outline of its position on the floor
with a piece of chalk.</p>

<p>“Try it for finger-prints, sir?” he inquired. “I've
got an insufflator in the car.”</p>

<p>Receiving permission, he hurried off to procure his
powder-sprayer, and in a few minutes he had treated
the pistol with the revealing medium. As he did so,
his face showed deepening disappointment.</p>

<p>“Nothing worth troubling about here, sir. Whoever
it was handled this pistol last must have been wearing
gloves. There's nothing to be seen but a few smears of
no use to us at all.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed in no wise depressed by the
news.</p>

<p>“Then just open it up, Inspector, and have a look
at the magazine.”</p>

<p>“It's three shots short of being full, sir, counting the
cartridge that must be in the barrel now,” Flamborough
explained, after he had slid the magazine from
the butt.</p>

<p>“Then you've found all the empty cases corresponding
to the number of shots fired from <em>this</em> pistol, at any rate.
We can leave someone else to hunt for extras when
the plan's being made. I don't expect they'll discover
any. Now we'll—H'm! What's this?”</p>

<p>He stepped swiftly across the room and lifted something
which had rolled under a little book-case standing
on four feet. As he picked it up, his companions saw that
it was an amber cigarette holder. Flamborough's face
betrayed some mortification.</p>

<p>“I could have sworn I looked under there,” he
declared.</p>

<p>“So you did, Inspector; but it happened to be close
up to one of the feet of the bookcase, and probably it
was hidden from you in the position you were when
you lay on the floor. It just happened to be in the right
line from where I was standing a moment ago. Now
let's have a look at it.”</p>

<p>He held it out, handling it by the tip with the greatest
precaution to avoid leaving his finger-prints upon the
tube. At first sight, it seemed simply a cigarette-holder
such as could be bought in any tobacconist's shop; but
as he rotated it between his finger and thumb, the other
side of the barrel came into view and revealed a fly
embedded in the material.</p>

<p>“One hears a lot about flies in amber,” Sir Clinton
said, “but this is the first time I've seen one.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood bent over and examined the
imprisoned insect.</p>

<p>“That ought to be easy enough to identify,” he
commented. “I never saw a fly in amber before; and
that one, with its wings half-spread, must be fairly well
known to most of the owner's friends.”</p>

<p>“It may have nothing to do with the case, though,”
Inspector Flamborough put in. “It's quite on the cards
that it was dropped there at the time the house was
open for the summer. Some visitor may have lost it,
for all one can tell. Or it may belong to either of the
Hassendeans.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton twisted the little object into a vertical
position and peered into the cavity which had received
the cigarettes’ ends.</p>

<p>“It's not a left-over from summer, Inspector. The
tube's got quite a lot of tarry liquid in it. That would
have gone viscid if the thing had been lying there for a
couple of months. No, it's been used quite
recently—within the last day or two, certainly.”</p>

<p>He moved towards the window.</p>

<p>“Just bring that machine of yours, Inspector, and
blow some powder over it, please.”</p>

<p>Flamborough obeyed; but the application of the
powder revealed nothing except a few shapeless blotches
on the stem of the holder.</p>

<p>“Nothing!” Ringwood exclaimed, with more than
a tinge of disappointment in his tone.</p>

<p>“Nothing,” Sir Clinton admitted.</p>

<p>He handed the holder to Flamborough, who stowed
it away safely.</p>

<p>“We've still to overhaul the body,” the Chief
Constable suggested. “You'd better do that, Inspector.”</p>

<p>“Not much help in these modern dresses,” said
Flamborough, eyeing the girl's evening frock with a
disparaging glance. “But she ought to have a bag with
her, surely. . . . Here it is!”</p>

<p>He plunged his hand between the body and the chair
and withdrew a little bag, which he proceeded to open.</p>

<p>“The usual powder-box,” he began, enumerating
the articles as they came to hand, “Small mirror,
silver-mounted, no initials on it. Small comb.
Lipstick—been used once or twice. No money. No
handkerchief.”</p>

<p>“You found Mrs. Silverdale's handkerchief in the car
last night,” Sir Clinton reminded him.</p>

<p>“Then I suppose this must be her body, right
enough, sir. Well, that seems to be all that's here.”</p>

<p>“What about these rings she's wearing,” the Chief
Constable suggested. “See if you can get them off.
There may be some inscriptions on the inside; some
women go in for that kind of thing.”</p>

<p>Fortunately the hands of the body were relaxed, and
it was possible to remove the circlets from the fingers.
Flamborough rose with three rings in his possession,
which he examined with care.</p>

<p>“You're on the mark there, sir, right enough. Here's
her wedding-ring. It's engraved ‘7–11–23’—that'll be
the date of her marriage, I suppose. Then on each side
of the date are initials. ‘Y.S.’—that's for Yvonne
Silverdale, obviously; and ‘F.S.’—these'll be her
husband's initials. Then there's a diamond ring that she
was using for a keeper. Let's see. It's got the same pairs
of initials on each side of the date ‘4–10–23.’ That'll be
her engagement-ring, I expect. H'm! They don't seem
to have given themselves much time for second thoughts
if the engagement lasted only a month and three days.”</p>

<p>He passed the two rings to Sir Clinton and picked
the last one from his palm for examination.</p>

<p>“This is off the little finger. It's a plain gold signet
with Y and S intertwined on it. Evidently it's Mrs.
Silverdale right enough, sir. The inscription's inside . . .
H'm! there's a variation here. The date's ‘15–11–25’
here; but there's only a single letter at each end:
a Y at one side and a B at the other. That's a bit of a
puzzle,” he concluded, glancing at his superior to see
if he could detect anything in his face.</p>

<p>“I agree with you, Inspector,” was all that he
elicited for his pains. “Now take off the bracelet, and
that string of pearls round her neck. Anything of note
on the bracelet?”</p>

<p>“Nothing whatever, sir,” the Inspector reported
after a glance at it.</p>

<p>“Well, you'd better put these in a safe place when we
get back to town. Now does that finish us here?”</p>

<p>He glanced round the room and his eye was caught
by the second window which looked out from the side
of the bungalow. The curtains were still undrawn, and
he noticed a minute gap through which the outer
daylight could pass freely. A thought seemed to strike him
as he ran his eyes over the fabric.</p>

<p>“We'll just go outside for a minute,” he announced,
and led the way through the hall and out of the front
door. “Let's see, that window's round here, isn't it.
Keep back for a moment.”</p>

<p>He halted outside the window and scrutinised the
ground with care for a few seconds.</p>

<p>“See that, Inspector?” he inquired. “There aren't
any foot-prints that one could make anything out of;
but someone has put his foot on the box edging of the
path just in front of the window. It's quite obviously
crushed . . . and freshly crushed, too, by the look
of it.”</p>

<p>Stepping softly on to the flower-bed which lay under
the window-sill, he bent down until his eye was level
with the chink between the curtains and peered through
into the room.</p>

<p>“That's interesting,” he said, as he turned again to
face his companions. “One gets quite a good view of
the room from here; and it looks as if somebody had
taken advantage of it last night. Nobody would attempt
to look into a shut-up house in the dark, so presumably
the lights were on when he took the trouble to put his
eye to the crack.”</p>

<p>The Inspector made no pretence of concealing his
delight.</p>

<p>“If we could only get hold of him. Perhaps he saw
the murder actually done, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed disinclined to rejoice too
fervently.</p>

<p>“It's all pure hypothesis,” he pointed out, rather
frigidly.</p>

<p>Flamborough's rectitude forced him into a
semi-apology for past doubts.</p>

<p>“You were quite right about Mr. Justice, sir. He's
been a trump-card; and if we can only get hold of him
and find out what he saw here last night, the rest
ought to be as easy as kiss-your-hand.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton could not restrain a smile.</p>

<p>“You're devilish previous, Inspector, in spite of all I
can do. This Peeping Tom may be Mr. Justice, or again
he may not. There isn't any evidence either way.”</p>

<p>He stepped back on to the path again.</p>

<p>“Now, Inspector, we'll have to leave you here in
charge. It seems to be your usual rôle in these days. I'll
send a couple of men up to relieve you—the fellow who
makes our scale-models, too. You can set him to work.
And I'll make arrangements for the removal of Mrs.
Silverdale's body.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir. I'll stay here till relieved.”</p>

<p>“Then Dr. Ringwood and I had better get away at
once.”</p>

<p>They walked round the bungalow to the car. As he
drove away, Sir Clinton turned to the doctor.</p>

<p>“We must thank you again, doctor, for coming out
here.”</p>

<p>“Oh, that's all right,” Ringwood assured him. “I
got Ryder to look after my patients—at least the worst
ones—this morning. Very decent of him. He made no
bones about it when he heard it was you who wanted
me. It hasn't been a pleasant job, certainly; but at
least it's been a change from the infernal grind of
Carew's practice.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton drove for a few minutes in silence, then
he put a question to the doctor.</p>

<p>“I suppose it's not out of the question that young
Hassendean might have driven from the bungalow to
Ivy Lodge with those wounds in his lungs?”</p>

<p>“I see nothing against it, unless the P.M. shows
something that makes it impossible. People with
lung-wounds—even fatal ones—have managed to get about
quite spryly for a time. Of course, it's quite on the cards
that his moving about may have produced fresh lesions
in the tissues. What surprises me more is how he
managed to find his way home through that fog last
night.”</p>

<p>“That wouldn't be so difficult,” Sir Clinton
rejoined. “This road runs right from the bungalow to
the end of Lauderdale Avenue. He'd only to keep his
car straight and recognise the turn when he came to
it. It wasn't a case of having to dodge through a
network of streets.”</p>

<p>A thought seemed to occur to him.</p>

<p>“By the way, doctor, did you notice any peculiar
coincidence in dates that we've come across?”</p>

<p>“Dates? No, can't say I did. What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“Well,” the Chief Constable pointed out deliberately,
“the date on that scrap from the torn envelope we
found in the drawer was 1925, and the figures on that
mysterious signet-ring were 5–11–25. It just happened
to strike me.”</p>

<p>His manner suggested that he had no desire to
furnish any further information. Dr. Ringwood changed
the subject.</p>

<p>“By the way, you didn't examine the lever handle of
the window for finger-prints,” he said, with a note of
interrogation in his voice.</p>

<p>“The Inspector will do that. He's very thorough.
In any case, I don't expect to find much on the lever.”</p>

<p>For a few moments Sir Clinton concentrated his
attention on his driving, as they were now within the
outskirts of Westerhaven. When he spoke again, his
remark struck the doctor as obscure.</p>

<p>“I wish that poor girl who was done in at Heatherfield
last night hadn't been such a tidy creature.”</p>

<p>Dr. Ringwood stared.</p>

<p>“Why?” he inquired.</p>

<p>“Because if she'd shirked her job and left those
coffee-cups unwashed, it might have saved us a lot of bother.
But when I looked over the scullery, everything had
been washed and put away.”</p>

<p>“Well . . . you don't seem to miss much,” the doctor
confessed. “I suppose it was what I repeated to you
about Mrs. Silverdale looking queer when she came
out of the drawing-room—that put you on the track?
You were thinking of drugs, even then?”</p>

<p>“That was it,” Sir Clinton answered. Then, after a
moment he added: “And I've got a fair notion of
what drug was used, too.”</p>

<h2>Chapter VI. <br/> The Nine Possible Solutions</h2>

<p>The police machinery under Sir Clinton's control
always worked smoothly, even when its routine was
disturbed by such unpredictable events as murders.
Almost automatically, it seemed, that big, flexible
engine had readjusted itself to the abnormal; the
bodies of Hassendean and the maid at Heatherfield
had been taken into its charge and all arrangements had
been made for dealing with them; Heatherfield itself
had been occupied by a constabulary picket; the
photographic department had been called in to take
“metric photographs” showing the exact positions
of the bodies in the two houses; inquiries had ramified
through the whole district as to the motor-traffic during
the previous night; and a wide-flung intelligence
system was unobtrusively collecting every scrap of
information which might have a bearing on this suddenly
presented problem. Finally, the organism had projected
a tentacle to the relief of Inspector Flamborough,
marooned at the bungalow, and had replaced him by
a police picket while arrangements were being made
to remove Mrs. Silverdale's body and to map the
premises.</p>

<p>“Anything fresh, Inspector?” Sir Clinton demanded,
glancing up from his papers as his subordinate
entered the room.</p>

<p>“One or two more points cleared up, sir,” Flamborough
announced, with a certain satisfaction showing
on his good-humoured face. “First of all, I tried the
lever of the window-hasp for finger-prints. There
weren't any. So that's done with. I could see you
didn't lay much stress on that part of the business,
sir.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable's nod gave acquiescence to this,
and he waited for Flamborough to continue.</p>

<p>“I've hunted for more blood-traces about the house;
and I've found two or three small ones—a track leading
from the room to the front door. There was less blood
than I expected, though.”</p>

<p>He produced a blood-soaked handkerchief.</p>

<p>“This was picked up near the corner of Lauderdale
Avenue, sir, this morning after the fog cleared away.
It has an H in one corner. You remember we found no
handkerchief on Hassendean's body. Evidently he was
using this one to staunch his wounds, and he probably
let it drop out of the car at the place where it was found.
The doctor said there might be very little external
bleeding, you remember; and the handkerchief's
mopped up a fair amount of what happened to ooze
out.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton again acquiesced, and the Inspector
proceeded.</p>

<p>“I've taken the finger-prints from all three bodies,
sir. They're filed for reference, if need be. And I've
had a good look at that side-window at the bungalow.
There's no doubt that someone must have been standing
there; but the traces are so poor that nothing can
be done in the way of a permanent record.</p>

<p>“One can't even see the shape of the man's boot, let
alone any fine details.”</p>

<p>“Anything more?” Sir Clinton inquired. “You
seem to have been fairly putting your back into it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's face showed his appreciation of the
compliment implied in the words.</p>

<p>“I've drafted an advertisement—worded it very
cautiously of course—asking Mr. Justice to favour us
with some further information, if he has any in stock.
That's been sent off already; it'll be in the <i>Evening
Observer</i> to-night, and in both the morning papers
to-morrow.”</p>

<p>“Good! Though I shouldn't get too optimistic over
the results, if I were you, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Flamborough assented to this. Putting his hand into
his breast pocket he produced a paper.</p>

<p>“Then I've got a report from Detective-Sergeant
Yarrow. I sent him down to the G.P.O. to find out
about Mr. Justice's telegram. It's impossible to get a
description of the sender, sir. The telegram wasn't
handed in over the counter: it was dropped into a
pillar box in the suburbs in a plain envelope, along
with the telegraph fee; and when it was taken to the
G.P.O. they simply telegraphed it to our local office
round the corner.”</p>

<p>“H'm!” said Sir Clinton. “There doesn't seem
much likelihood of your advertisement catching much,
then. Mr. Justice is obviously a shy bird.”</p>

<p>“He is indeed, sir, as you'll see in a moment. But
I'll finish Yarrow's report first, if you don't mind.
When he heard this story at the G.P.O., he asked
for the postman who had brought in the envelope and
questioned him. It appears the thing was dropped into
the pillar-box at the corner of Hill Street and Prince's
Street. That's nowhere near the Lizardbridge Road,
you remember—quite on the other side of the town.”</p>

<p>“Five miles at least from the bungalow,” Sir
Clinton confirmed. “Yes, go on, Inspector.”</p>

<p>“The postman made his collection, which included
this envelope, at 7 a.m. this morning. The previous
collection from the same box was made at 8 p.m. last
night, Yarrow elicited.”</p>

<p>“Then all we really know is that the thing
was dropped into the box between 8 p.m. and
7 a.m.”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Yarrow secured the original telegram
form,” Flamborough continued with a glance at the
paper in his hand. “The envelope had been torn
open carelessly and dropped into a waste-basket; but
Yarrow succeeded in getting hold of it also. There's
no doubt about its identity, sir. Yarrow ascertained
through whose hands the envelope and the enclosure
had passed while they were in charge of the Post Office;
and he persuaded all these people to let him have their
finger-prints, which he took himself on the spot. He
then brought all his material back here and had the
envelope and its enclosure examined for finger-prints;
and the two documents were photographed after
the prints had been brought up on them with a
powder.”</p>

<p>“And they found nothing helpful, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Nothing, so far, sir. Every print that came out
belonged to the postman or the sorter, or the
telegraphist. There wasn't one of them that could belong to
Mr. Justice.”</p>

<p>“I told you he was a shy bird, Inspector.”</p>

<p>The Inspector put his paper down on the desk
before Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“He's all that, sir. He hasn't even given us a scrap
of his handwriting.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable leaned forward and examined
the document. It was an ordinary telegram despatch
form, but the message: “<i>Try hassendean bungalow
lizardbridge road justice</i>,” had been constructed by
gumming isolated letters and groups of letters on to
the paper. No handwriting of any sort had been
used.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton scanned the type for a moment, running
his eye over the official printed directions on the form
as well.</p>

<p>“He's simply cut his letters out of another telegram
blank, apparently?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Rather ingenious, that, since it leaves absolutely
no chance of identification. It's useless to begin
inquiring where a telegraphic blank came from, even
if one could identify the particular sheet that he's
been using. He's evidently got one of these rare minds
that can see the obvious and turn it to account. I'd
like to meet Mr. Justice.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it certainly doesn't leave much to take
hold of, does it? Yarrow's done his best; and I don't
see how he could have done more. But the result's just
a blank end.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked at his watch, took out his case
and offered the Inspector a cigarette.</p>

<p>“Sit down, Inspector. We're talking unofficially now,
you'll note. I think we might do worse than clear the
decks in this business as far as possible before we go any
further. It may save time in the end.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough thought he saw a trap in
front of him.</p>

<p>“I'd like to hear what you think of it, sir.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable's smile showed that he
understood what was passing in Flamborough's
mind.</p>

<p>“I'd hate to ask a man to do something I didn't dare
to do myself,” he said, with a faint twinkle in his eye.
“So I'll put my cards on the table for you to look at.
If the spirit moves you, Inspector, you can do the same
when your turn comes.”</p>

<p>The Inspector's smile broadened into something like
a grin.</p>

<p>“Very good, sir. I understand that it's purely
unofficial.”</p>

<p>“On the face of it,” Sir Clinton began, “two people
got their deaths at the bungalow last night. Young
Hassendean didn't actually die there, of course, but
the shooting took place there.”</p>

<p>Flamborough refrained from interrupting, but gave
a nod of agreement.</p>

<p>“Deaths by violence fall under three heads, I think,”
the Chief Constable pursued—“accident, suicide, and
homicide, including murder. Now at the bungalow
you had two people put to death, and in each case the
death must have been due to one or other of these
three causes. Ever do permutations and combinations
at school, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“No, sir,” Flamborough confessed, rather
doubtfully.</p>

<p>“Well, taking the possible ways of two people
dying one or other of three different deaths, there
are nine different arrangements. We'll write them
down.”</p>

<p>He drew a sheet of paper towards him, scribbled
on it for a moment or two, and then slid it across the
table towards the Inspector. Flamborough bent over
and read as follows:</p>

<table class="solutions">
<tbody><tr>
<th class="left">Hassendean</th><th class="right">Mrs. Silverdale</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>1.—Accident</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>2.—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Suicide</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>3.—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>4.—Accident</span></td><td class="right">Suicide</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>5.—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>6.—Accident</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>7.—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>8.—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>9.—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Suicide</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>“Now, since in that table we've got every possible
arrangement which theoretically could occur,” Sir
Clinton continued, “the truth must lie somewhere
within the four corners of it.”</p>

<p>“Yes, <em>somewhere</em>,” said Flamborough in an almost
scornful tone.</p>

<p>“If we take each case in turn, we'll get a few notions
about what <em>may</em> have happened,” Sir Clinton pursued,
unmoved by the Inspector's obvious contempt for the
idea. “But let's be clear on one or two points to start
with. The girl, so far as one can see at present, died
from poison and was shot in the head after death.
Young Hassendean died from pistol-shots, of which
there were two. Agreed?”</p>

<p>“Agreed,” Flamborough conceded without
enthusiasm.</p>

<p>“Then let's take the cases as we come to them. Case
1: The whole thing was accidental. To fit that, the girl
must have swallowed a fatal dose of poison, administered
by mischance either by herself or by someone
else; and young Hassendean must either have shot
himself twice by accident—which sounds unlikely—or
else some third party unintentionally shot him twice
over. What do you make of that?”</p>

<p>“It doesn't sound very convincing, sir.”</p>

<p>“Take Case No. 2, then: A double suicide. What
about that?”</p>

<p>“These lovers’ suicide-pacts aren't uncommon,” the
Inspector admitted. “That might be near the truth.
And I suppose he might have put a bullet through her
head before shooting himself, just in case the poison
hadn't worked.”</p>

<p>He drew a notebook from his pocket.</p>

<p>“Just a moment, sir. I want to make a note to remind
me to see about young Hassendean's pistol license, if
he had one. I think he must have had. I found a box
and a half of ammunition in one of the drawers when I
was searching the house after you'd gone.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton paused while the Inspector made his
jotting.</p>

<p>“Now we can take the third case,” he continued, as
Flamborough closed his pocket-book. “It implies that
Mrs. Silverdale was deliberately poisoned and that
young Hassendean was shot to death intentionally,
either by her before she died or by some third
party.”</p>

<p>“Three of them seems more likely than two,” the
Inspector suggested. “There's the man who opened the
window to be fitted in somewhere, you know, and there
were signs of a struggle, too.”</p>

<p>“Quite true, Inspector. I suppose you can fit the
shot in Mrs. Silverdale's head into the scheme also?”</p>

<p>Flamborough shook his head without offering any
verbal comment on the question.</p>

<p>“Then we'll take Case 4,” the Chief Constable
pursued. “Mrs. Silverdale deliberately poisoned herself,
and young Hassendean came by his end accidentally.
In other words, he was shot by either Mrs. Silverdale or
by a third party—because I doubt if a man could shoot
himself twice over by accident.”</p>

<p>Flamborough shook his head again, more definitely
this time.</p>

<p>“It doesn't sound likely, sir.”</p>

<p>Then his face changed.</p>

<p>“Wait a bit, though,” he added quickly: “If that's
what happened, she must have had a motive for
suicide. Perhaps someone was on her track, somebody
pretty dangerous; and she saw the game was up. I
don't profess to know how that could happen. But if
the man on her heels was the fellow who did the work
with the tourniquet at Heatherfield last night, she
might have thought poison an easier way out of things.
It's a possibility, sir.”</p>

<p>“It leaves us hunting for the clue to a purely
hypothetical mystery, though, Inspector, I'm afraid. I
don't say you're wrong, of course.”</p>

<p>“I daresay it's complicated enough already,”
Flamborough admitted without prejudice. “Besides,
this Case 4 of yours has another flaw in it—several, in
fact. Unless you take the idea I suggested, it's hard to
see why the girl should have had a supply of poison
handy at all. It sounds a bit wild. And you've got to
assume that a third party shot young Hassendean twice
by accident, if a third party came into the business at
all. To my mind, that won't wash, sir. It's not good
enough. Whereas if it was a case of Mrs. Silverdale
shooting him by accident, there was no need for her to
commit suicide because of that. No one knew she was
here. She could simply have walked out of the front
door and got clear away with no questions asked. And
if she'd already taken poison, she wouldn't need to shoot
herself in the head, would she?”</p>

<p>“Grave objections,” Sir Clinton admitted. It amused
him to see the Inspector entering so keenly into the
game. “Now we proceed to Case 5.”</p>

<p>“Oh, Case 5 is just bunkum,” the Inspector
pronounced bluntly. “She gets accidentally poisoned;
then she gets accidentally shot; then young Hassendean
suicides. It's too thick altogether.”</p>

<p>“I like the concise way you put it,” Sir Clinton
answered with simulated admiration. “So we go on
to No. 6, eh? She was deliberately murdered and
he was accidentally shot. What about that?”</p>

<p>“I'd want to see some motive for the murder, sir,
before accepting that as a possible basis. And if she was
deliberately poisoned, what was the good of young
Hassendean dragging her off to the bungalow? That
would throw suspicion straight on to him if he poisoned
her. . . .”</p>

<p>Flamborough broke off and seemed to think hard for
a moment or two.</p>

<p>“That's a fresh line,” he exclaimed suddenly. “I've
been assuming all along that either she or young
Hassendean used the poison. But it might have been
a third party. I never thought of it in that light,
sir.”</p>

<p>He pondered again, while Sir Clinton watched his
face.</p>

<p>“It might have been someone else altogether, if the
poison was a slow-acting one. Someone at Heatherfield
perhaps.”</p>

<p>“There was only one available person at
Heatherfield just then,” Sir Clinton pointed out.</p>

<p>“You mean the maid, sir? Of course! And that
might help to account for her death, too. It might be a
case of Judge Lynch, sir. Somebody squaring the
account without bothering us about it.”</p>

<p>New horizons seemed to be opening up in the
Inspector's mind.</p>

<p>“I'll admit there's something in this method of yours,
after all, sir,” he conceded gracefully.</p>

<p>“I like your ‘after all,’ Inspector. But at any rate
you seem to find the method suggestive, which is
something, at least.”</p>

<p>“It certainly puts ideas into one's mind that one
mightn't have thought about otherwise. What about
the next case?”</p>

<p>“Case 7? That's the converse of the last one. He was
shot deliberately and she died by accident. What about
it?”</p>

<p>“That would mean, sir, that either she took an
overdose of the drug by mistake or someone gave her a fatal
dose, ditto. Then either she or a third party shot young
Hassendean.”</p>

<p>“Something of the sort.”</p>

<p>“H'm! It's no worse than some of the other suggestions.
I wonder, now. . . . She didn't look like a dope-fiend,
so far as I could see; but she might have been
just a beginner and taken an overdose by accident. Her
eye-pupils were pretty wide-open. That wouldn't fit in
with her snuffing morphine or heroin, but she might
have been a cocaine addict, for all we know. . . . This
method of yours is very stimulating, sir. It makes one
think along fresh lines.”</p>

<p>“Well, have another think, Inspector. Case 8: he
suicided and she was murdered.”</p>

<p>“That brings us up against the missing motive
again, sir. I'd like to think over that later on.”</p>

<p>“Case 9, then: He was murdered and she committed
suicide. What about that?”</p>

<p>“Let me take it bit by bit, sir. First of all, if he was
murdered, then either she did it or a third party did it.
If she did it, then she might have premeditated it, and
had her dose of poison with her, ready to swallow when
she'd shot young Hassendean. That's that. If a third
party murdered young Hassendean, she might have
suicided in terror of what was going to happen to her;
but that would imply that she was carrying poison
about with her. Also, this third party—whoever he
was—must have had his knife pretty deep in both of
them. That's one way of looking at it. But there's
another side to the thing as well. Suppose it was one of
these suicide-pacts and she took the poison as her part
of the bargain; then, before he can swallow his dose,
the third party comes on the scene and shoots him. That
might be a possibility.”</p>

<p>“And the third party obligingly removed the superfluous
dose of poison, for some inscrutable reason of his
own, eh?”</p>

<p>“H'm! It seems silly, doesn't it?”</p>

<p>“Of course, unlikely things do happen,” Sir Clinton
admitted. “I'm no stickler for probability in crime.
One so seldom finds it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough took his notebook from his pocket and
entered in it a copy of Sir Clinton's classification.</p>

<p>“I'll have another think about this later on,” he said,
as he finished writing. “I didn't think much of it when
you showed it to me at first, but it certainly seems to be
one way of getting a few ideas to test.”</p>

<p>“Now let's look at the thing from another point of
view,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Assume that young
Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale were in the room of the
bungalow. There were traces of somebody at the
side-window, and someone certainly broke the glass of the
front window. By the way, Inspector, when you went
over young Hassendean's clothes finally last night, did
you find a key-ring or anything of that sort?”</p>

<p>“He had a few keys—the latchkey of Ivy Lodge, and
one or two more.”</p>

<p>“You'll need to make sure that the key of the
bungalow was amongst them, because if it wasn't, then he
may have had to break in—which would account for the
window. But I'm pretty certain he didn't do that. He'd
been up beforehand with these flowers in the afternoon,
getting the place ready. It's most improbable that he
hadn't the key of the front door with him.”</p>

<p>“I'll see to it,” the Inspector assured him.</p>

<p>“In the meantime, just let's assume that the broken
window represents the work of a third party. What do
you make of things on that basis?”</p>

<p>“What is there to make out of them except one
thing?” Flamborough demanded. “At the side
window you had somebody whom you christened
Peeping Tom; at the front window was a second
person who got so excited that he broke into the room.
You're not trying to make out that these two characters
were filled by one person, are you, sir? There would be
no point in Peeping Tom leaving his window and
walking round to the front one before breaking in. Either
window was good enough for that. He'd no need to
shift his ground.”</p>

<p>“No,” Sir Clinton assured him in a thoughtful tone,
“I wasn't looking at it from that angle. I was merely
wondering where Mr. Justice came in.”</p>

<p>“You mean whether he was Peeping Tom or
t'other?”</p>

<p>“Something of that sort,” the Chief Constable
answered. Then, changing the subject, he added:
“What bits of information are you going to hunt for
next, Inspector?”</p>

<p>Flamborough ran over some points in his mind and
cleared his throat before speaking.</p>

<p>“First of all, I want to know what this poison was,
where it came from, and how long it takes to act. I
expect to get something from the P.M. results, and we
can always send some of the organs for analysis.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded his agreement.</p>

<p>“I think we'll get two people on to that part of the
thing independently. Say a London man and perhaps
one of the chemists at the Croft-Thornton Institute here.
We'll need to see this fellow Markfield in any case, just
to check the statements that Ringwood gave us, and
when we're doing that we can find out if there's anyone
capable of doing the analysis for us. Perhaps Markfield
himself might take it on.”</p>

<p>The Inspector, seeing that Sir Clinton was waiting
for him to continue, proceeded with his list of evidence
required.</p>

<p>“I'll put Yarrow on to the matter of young Hassendean's
pistol license. That won't take long to look up,
and it will help to clinch the fact that it really was his
pistol that we found on the floor. I don't suppose for a
moment that it was brought in from the outside. The
loose ammunition in the drawer seems convincing on
that point.”</p>

<p>“I'm quite with you there,” Sir Clinton admitted.</p>

<p>“Then I want to look into the maid's affairs and see
if she had any grudge against Mrs. Silverdale. It's a
pity the second maid's so ill. We can't get anything out
of her for a while, I'm afraid. And I want her for
another thing: to see if Mrs. Silverdale doped herself
at all. But I expect, if she did, that I'll be able to pick
up some hint of it somewhere or other. And of course,
if the poison turns out to be a non-dope kind, that line
of inquiry drops into a subsidiary place.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” the Chief Constable encouraged him.</p>

<p>“Then I'll send a man up to try the keys we found
in young Hassendean's pocket on the lock of the
bungalow door, just to clear up the broken window
matter. That won't take long.”</p>

<p>“And then?”</p>

<p>“Well, I suppose I'll need to make a try at finding
out who Peeping Tom was and also your Mr. Justice.”</p>

<p>“Quite a lot of suggestions you seem to have extracted
from my little list of possibilities, Inspector. I think
you owe it an apology for the rather contemptuous way
you approached it at first.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it's been more suggestive than I expected,
I admit.”</p>

<p>“One thing's certain, Inspector. The solution of the
affair must lie somewhere on that little table. It's
simply a matter of picking out the proper case. The
odds at most are eight to one and they're really less
than that if one discards some of the very improbable
combinations.”</p>

<p>The desk-telephone rang sharply, and Sir Clinton
listened to the message.</p>

<p>“That interests you, Inspector. A report's come in
that Mr. Silverdale came home and has gone down to
the Croft-Thornton. He mentioned where he was
going to the constable in charge at Heatherfield, and
he very thoughtfully suggested that as the Croft-Thornton
is quite near here, it would be easy for us to
interview him there if we desired to do so. The perfect
little gentleman, in fact. Well, what about it,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>“I suppose I'd better go at once,” Flamborough
proposed after a glance at his watch.</p>

<p>“I think I'll include myself in the invitation,” Sir
Clinton volunteered. “And, by the way, you'd better
take that fly-in-the-amber cigarette-holder with you,
if they've finished with it downstairs. Young
Hassendean was working at the Croft-Thornton and someone
there may be able to identify it for us if it was his. I'm
not anxious to trouble his relations in the matter.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” Flamborough acquiesced. “You'll
want your car. I'll give the order for it now.”</p>

<h2>Chapter VII. <br/> The Fly in the Amber</h2>

<p>At the door of the big block of buildings which
formed the Croft-Thornton Institute, Inspector
Flamborough made inquiries from the porter and obtained
a guide through the labyrinth of stairs and corridors.</p>

<p>“This is Dr. Markfield's laboratory, sir,” their pilot
finally informed them as he knocked on a door.
“Two gentlemen to see you, sir,” he announced,
standing aside to allow Sir Clinton and the Inspector
to enter.</p>

<p>As they walked into the laboratory, Trevor
Markfield came towards them from one of the benches at
which he had been occupied. His face betrayed
his slight surprise at finding two strangers before
him.</p>

<p>“What can I do for you!” he inquired politely,
but without any needless effusiveness.</p>

<p>Flamborough, in response to an almost imperceptible
gesture from his superior, stepped to the front.</p>

<p>“This is Sir Clinton Driffield, the Chief Constable,
Dr. Markfield. I'm Inspector Flamborough. We've
called to see if you could give us some expert assistance
in a case.”</p>

<p>Markfield, after a glance at a water-bath on which a
flask was being heated, led the way to a little office
which adjoined the laboratory and closed the door
behind the party.</p>

<p>“We shall be more private here,” he said, inviting
them with a gesture to take chairs. “One of my
assistants will be back shortly, and I take it that your
business is likely to be confidential.”</p>

<p>The Inspector agreed with a nod.</p>

<p>“It's a poisoning case and we'll need some help in
detecting the poison.”</p>

<p>“That's a bit vague,” Markfield commented with a
smile. “There are so many kinds of poisons, you know.
If it's arsenic or anything of that sort, a first-year
student could spot it for you; but if it's one of the
organic lot, it'll be a stiff business most likely.”</p>

<p>“It looks like one of the mydriatic alkaloids,” Sir
Clinton put in. “Atropine, or something akin to it.
The eye-pupils of the body were dilated.”</p>

<p>Markfield considered for a moment.</p>

<p>“I've done some alkaloid work in my time,” he
explained, “but I suppose in a case of this kind you ought
to have the best man. Some of the alkaloids are the very
devil to spot when you've only a small quantity. I'd
like the fee for the case, of course,” he added with a
faint smile, “but the truth is that Dr. Silverdale,
my chief, is an alkaloid specialist. He's worked on them
for years, and he could give me points all along the
line. I'll take you along to his room now.”</p>

<p>He rose from his chair, but a gesture from
Flamborough arrested him.</p>

<p>“I'm afraid that would hardly do, Dr. Markfield.
As a matter of fact, it's Mrs. Silverdale's death that
we're inquiring into!”</p>

<p>Markfield could not repress an exclamation at the
Inspector's statement.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Silverdale? You don't mean to say that
anything's happened to her? Good God! I knew the girl
quite well. Nobody could have a grudge against her.”</p>

<p>He glanced from one official to the other, as though
doubting his ears.</p>

<p>“Wait a bit,” he added, after a moment's pause.
“Perhaps I've taken you up wrong. Do you mean
Yvonne Silverdale?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” the Inspector confirmed.</p>

<p>Markfield's face showed a struggle between
incredulity and belief.</p>

<p>“But that girl hadn't an enemy in the world, man,”
he broke out at last. “The thing's clean impossible.”</p>

<p>“I've just seen her body,” said the Inspector
curtly.</p>

<p>The blunt statement seemed to have its effect.</p>

<p>“Well, if that's so, you can count on me for any
work you want me to do. I'm quite willing to take
it on.”</p>

<p>“That's very satisfactory, Dr. Markfield,” Sir
Clinton interposed. “Now, perhaps you could give
us help in another line as well. You seem to have been
a friend of Mrs. Silverdale's. Could you tell us
anything about her—anything you think might be useful
to us?”</p>

<p>A fresh thought seemed to pass through Markfield's
mind and a faint suggestion of distrust appeared on his
face.</p>

<p>“Well, I'm ready to answer any questions you care
to put,” he said, though there seemed to be a certain
reluctance in his voice.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's attitude indicated that it was the turn
of the Inspector. Flamborough pulled out his notebook.</p>

<p>“First of all, then, Dr. Markfield, could you tell
us when you first became acquainted with Mrs.
Silverdale?”</p>

<p>“Shortly after she and her husband came to
Westerhaven. That's about three years ago, roughly.”</p>

<p>“You knew her fairly well?”</p>

<p>“I used to see her at dances and so forth. Lately,
I've seen less of her. She picked up other friends,
naturally; and I don't dance much nowadays.”</p>

<p>“She danced a good deal, I understand. Can you
tell me any particular people who associated with her
frequently in recent times?”</p>

<p>“I daresay I could give you a list of several. Young
Hassendean was one. She used him as a kind of dancing-partner,
from all I heard; but I go out so little nowadays
that I can't speak from much direct knowledge on
the point.”</p>

<p>“What sort of person was Mrs. Silverdale, in your
judgment?”</p>

<p>Markfield took a little time to consider this question.</p>

<p>“She was French, you know,” he replied. “I always
found her very bright. Some people called her frivolous.
She was out to enjoy herself, of course. Naturally she
was a bit out of place in a backwater like this. She got
some people's backs up, I believe. Women didn't like
her being so smartly-dressed and all that.”</p>

<p>“Have you any reason to suppose that she took
drugs?”</p>

<p>Markfield listened to this question with obvious
amazement.</p>

<p>“Drugs? No. She'd never touch drugs. Who's
been putting that lie around?”</p>

<p>Flamborough tactfully disregarded this question.</p>

<p>“Then from what you know of her, you would
say that suicide would be improbable in her
case?”</p>

<p>“Quite, I should say.”</p>

<p>“She had no worries that you know of, no domestic
troubles, for instance?”</p>

<p>Markfield's eyes narrowed slightly at the question.</p>

<p>“Hardly my business to discuss another man's
affairs, is it?” he demanded, obviously annoyed by
the Inspector's query. “I don't think I'm called upon
to repeat the tittle-tattle of the town.”</p>

<p>“You mean you don't know anything personally?”</p>

<p>“I mean I'm not inclined to gossip about the
domestic affairs of a colleague. If you're so keen on
them, you can go and ask him direct.”</p>

<p>It was quite evident that Markfield had strong views
on the subject of what he called “tittle-tattle”; and
the Inspector realised that nothing would be gained
by pursuing the matter. At the same time, he was
amused to see that Markfield, by his loyalty to his
colleague, had betrayed the very thing which he was
trying to conceal. It was obvious that things had not
gone smoothly in the Silverdale household, or
Markfield would have had no reason for burking the
question.</p>

<p>“You mentioned young Hassendean's name,”
Flamborough continued. “You know that he's been
murdered, of course?”</p>

<p>“I saw it in the paper this morning. He's no great
loss,” Markfield said brutally. “We had him here in
the Institute, and a more useless pup you'd be hard put
to it to find.”</p>

<p>“What sort of person was he?” the Inspector
inquired.</p>

<p>“One of these bumptious brats who think they
ought to have everything they want, just for the asking.
He'd a very bad swelled head. Herring-gutted, too,
I should judge. He used to bore me with a lot of
romantic drivel until I sat on him hard once or twice.
I couldn't stand him.”</p>

<p>It was evident that young Hassendean had rasped
Markfield's nerves badly.</p>

<p>“Had anyone a grudge against him, do you think?”</p>

<p>“I shouldn't be surprised, knowing him as I did.
He would have put a saint's back up with his bounce
and impertinence. But if you mean a grudge big enough
to lead to murder, I can't say. I saw as little of him as
possible even in working hours, and I had no interest
in his private affairs.”</p>

<p>It was quite evident that nothing of real value was to
be elicited along this line. The Inspector abandoned the
subject of young Hassendean's personality and turned
to a fresh field.</p>

<p>“Young Hassendean smoked cigarettes, didn't he?”</p>

<p>“I've seen him smoking them.”</p>

<p>“Is this his holder, by any chance?”</p>

<p>Flamborough produced the fly-in-amber holder as
he spoke and laid it on the table. As he did so, he
glanced at Markfield's face and was surprised to see the
swift change of expression on it. A flash of amazement
followed by something that looked like dismay, crossed
his features; then, almost instantaneously, he
composed himself, and only a faint trace of misgiving
showed in his eyes.</p>

<p>“No, that isn't young Hassendean's holder,” he
answered.</p>

<p>“You recognise it?”</p>

<p>Markfield bent forward to inspect the article, but
it was evident that he knew it well.</p>

<p>“Do I need to answer these questions of yours?”
he demanded, uncomfortably.</p>

<p>“You'll have that question put to you at the inquest
when you're on your oath,” said the Inspector sharply.
“You may as well answer now and save trouble.”</p>

<p>Markfield stared for a moment longer at the fly in the
amber.</p>

<p>“Where did you pick this thing up?” he demanded,
without answering the Inspector's question.</p>

<p>But Flamborough saw that he had got on the track of
something definite at last, and was not inclined to be
put off.</p>

<p>“That's our business, sir,” he said brusquely. “You
recognise the thing, obviously. Whose is it? It's no use
trying to shield anyone. The thing's too conspicuous;
and if you don't tell us about it, someone else will. But
it doesn't look well to find you trying to throw dust in
our eyes.”</p>

<p>Markfield could not help seeing that the Inspector
attached special importance to the holder; and he
evidently recognised that further shuffling was out of
the question.</p>

<p>“I'm not going to identify it for you,” he said.
“You've let slip that it's an important clue; and I
don't know it well enough to make assertions about it.
I'll send for a man now who'll be able to swear
definitely, one way or another. That's all I see my way to do
for you.”</p>

<p>He put his hand on a bell-push and they waited in
silence until a boy came in answer to the summons.</p>

<p>“Send Gilling to me at once,” Markfield ordered.</p>

<p>Then, when the boy had withdrawn, he turned to
the two officials again.</p>

<p>“Gilling is our head mechanic. You can question him
about it. He's an intelligent man.”</p>

<p>In a few minutes the mechanic appeared at the door.</p>

<p>“You wanted me, sir?” he asked.</p>

<p>Markfield introduced the Inspector with a gesture,
and Flamborough put his questions.</p>

<p>“You've seen this thing before?”</p>

<p>The mechanic came forward to the table and
examined the holder carefully.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. I made it myself.”</p>

<p>“You're quite sure of that?”</p>

<p>“No mistake about it. I know my own work.”</p>

<p>“Tell us what you know about it,” the Inspector
demanded.</p>

<p>The mechanic thought for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“It was about three months ago, sir. If you want it,
I can look up the exact date in my workshop notebook
where I keep a record of each day's work. I made two
of them for Dr. Silverdale at that time.”</p>

<p>Flamborough shot a glance at Markfield's downcast
face. It was pretty obvious now who was being shielded;
and the Inspector remembered how Markfield had
fenced in the matter of the domestic troubles of the
Silverdales.</p>

<p>“Tell us exactly what happened then,”
Flamborough encouraged the mechanic.</p>

<p>“Dr. Silverdale came to me one morning with some
bits of stuff in his hand—amber-looking, same as this
holder. He told me he'd been manufacturing some new
stuff—a condensate like Bakelite. He wanted me to see
if it could be filed and turned and so on. I remember
his showing me the fly, there. He'd put it into the stuff
as a joke—a fly to prove that the thing was genuine
amber, and take people in when he showed the stuff
to them. The condensate stuff was in sticks, two of them,
about six inches long by an inch thick, so he suggested
that I'd better make two cigarette-holders and see if the
thing would stand being worked on a lathe without
splitting or cracking. So I made the two holders for
him. I remember the trouble I had to steer clear of the
fly while I was shaping the thing.”</p>

<p>“And what happened to the holders after that?”</p>

<p>“Dr. Silverdale used the one with no fly in it for a
bit and kept the other one for show. Then he lost the
plain one—he's always leaving his holders about the
place on the benches—and he took to using the one with
the fly in it. He's been smoking with it for a month or
more, now. I remember just last week asking him
whether it was wearing well, when he came into the
workshop with it in his mouth.”</p>

<p>“Have another good look at it,” Flamborough
suggested. “I want to be sure there's no mistake.”</p>

<p>Gilling examined the holder once more.</p>

<p>“That's the one I made, sir. I could swear to it.”</p>

<p>He hesitated a moment as if wishing to ask a
question; but Flamborough, having got his information,
dismissed the mechanic without more ado. When the
man had gone, he turned back to Markfield.</p>

<p>“I don't quite like your way of doing things, Dr.
Markfield. You might have given us the information at
once without all this shuffling, for I could see at a
glance you had recognised this cigarette-holder. If
you're trying to shield your colleague from a reasonable
investigation, I'll take the liberty of reminding you that
one can become an accessory after the fact as well as
before it.”</p>

<p>Markfield's face grew stormy as he listened to the
Inspector's warning.</p>

<p>“I'd have a look at the law on slander, if I were you,
Inspector, before you start flinging accusations about.
If you remember the facts, it'll help. I've only seen this
holder at a distance when Dr. Silverdale was using it.
I've never had a good look at it until you produced it.
Naturally, although I had very little doubt about whose
it was, still I wasn't going to assert that it was
Silverdale's. But I got you a man who could identify it
properly. What more do you want?”</p>

<p>Flamborough's face showed that he found this
defence quite unsatisfactory. Markfield's obvious fencing
with him at the start had left its impression on his mind.</p>

<p>“Well, when you do this analysis for us, remember
that you'll have to testify about it in the witness-box,”
he said, bluntly. “We can't have any qualifications
and fine distinctions then, you know.”</p>

<p>“I'll be quite prepared to stand over any results I
get,” Markfield asserted with equal bluntness. “But I
don't guarantee to find a poison if it isn't there, of
course.”</p>

<p>“There <em>is</em> something there, according to the doctor,”
Flamborough declared. “Now I think I'd like to
see Dr. Silverdale, if you can tell us where to find
him.”</p>

<p>Markfield's temper was evidently still ruffled, and he
was obviously glad to be rid of the Inspector. He
conducted them along a passage, pointed out a door, and
then took leave of them in the curtest fashion.</p>

<p>They entered the room which had been shown to
them; and while Flamborough was explaining who
they were, Sir Clinton had leisure to examine
Silverdale. He saw an alert, athletic man with a friendly
manner, who looked rather younger than his thirty-five
years. Whatever Silverdale's domestic troubles
might have been, he showed few outward signs of them.
When they disturbed him, he had been sitting before
a delicate balance; and as he rose, he slid the glass
front down in order to protect the instrument. Apart
from his surroundings, it would have been difficult to
determine his profession; for he had an open-air skin
which certainly did not suggest the laboratory. He
carried himself well, and only a yellow stain of picric
acid on the right-hand side of his old tweed laboratory
jacket detracted from his spruceness and betrayed the
chemist.</p>

<p>“I've been expecting you, Inspector Flamborough,”
he said, as soon as he realised who his visitors were.
“This has been a dreadful business last night. It was a
bolt from the blue to me when I got home this
morning.”</p>

<p>He paused, and looked inquiringly at the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Have you any notion why that unfortunate maid
of mine was murdered? It's a complete mystery to me.
A dreadful business.”</p>

<p>Flamborough exchanged a glance with the Chief
Constable. As Silverdale had ignored his wife's death, it
seemed to the Inspector that the news of it might be
broken to him later, when the other case had been dealt
with. Silverdale, of course, could hardly have picked
up any hint about the affairs at the bungalow, since a
knowledge of them was still confined to the police and
Dr. Ringwood.</p>

<p>“We're rather at a loss at present,” Flamborough
admitted frankly. “As things stand, it looks rather like
a case of a detected burglar who killed the woman
when she disturbed him at his work. Had you any stock
of valuables on your premises which might have
attracted gentry of that sort?”</p>

<p>Silverdale shook his head.</p>

<p>“My wife had a certain amount of jewellery, but I
don't think any burglar would have found it worth
while to go the length of murder for the sake of it.”</p>

<p>“Where did Mrs. Silverdale keep her jewellery?”</p>

<p>“I rather think it's kept in one of the drawers of an
old chest-of-drawers in her room—the drawer that the
man broke into. But she may have other things
elsewhere. We had different rooms, you know; and I
never troubled to find out where she put things in her
own room.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you couldn't give us a list of your wife's
jewellery?”</p>

<p>“No, I really don't know what she has. I could tell
you one or two things, of course; but I couldn't
guarantee to remember them all.”</p>

<p>Flamborough switched off to a fresh line.</p>

<p>“This maid of yours was reliable? I mean, she
couldn't have been a confederate of the burglar by any
chance?”</p>

<p>Silverdale shook his head.</p>

<p>“Quite out of the question, I should say. That maid
had been with us ever since we were married; and
before that she'd been in service with an aunt of mine
who died. She'd always had a good character, and she
was old enough not to do anything silly.”</p>

<p>“An old family retainer? I see, sir. And you never
had any friction with her, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Certainly not.”</p>

<p>Flamborough returned to his earlier line of inquiry.</p>

<p>“You can't think of anything else a burglar might
have had his eye on in your house, sir? Apart from the
jewellery, I mean.”</p>

<p>Silverdale seemed taken aback by the question.</p>

<p>“I don't quite understand, I'm afraid. What could
a burglar want except jewellery or plate? And he
might take all the plate I keep away with him and not
be much the richer.”</p>

<p>Flamborough seemed unable to think of any fresh
question to put on that particular subject. His face took
on a new expression.</p>

<p>“I'm afraid we've got worse news for you, sir,” he
began, and in a few sentences he put Silverdale in
possession of the barest outline of the bungalow
tragedy. Sir Clinton, watching the manner in which
the bereaved husband received the news, had to confess
to himself that he could make nothing of what he saw.
Silverdale's manner and words were just what might
have been expected in the circumstances.</p>

<p>Flamborough allowed a decent interval to elapse
before he came directly to business once more.</p>

<p>“Now, Dr. Silverdale, I'm sorry I've got to ask some
awkward questions; but I'm sure you'll give us your
best help in clearing up this affair. I hate to worry
you—I'm sure you understand that—but it's essential that
we should get certain information at the earliest possible
moment. That's my excuse.”</p>

<p>Before Silverdale could reply, the door of the
laboratory opened, and a slim, graceful girl came into
the room. At the sight of the two strangers, she halted
shyly. Sir Clinton caught a gleam in Silverdale's
expression as he turned towards the girl: a touch of
something difficult to define.</p>

<p>“Just a moment, Miss Deepcar, please. I'm engaged
just now.”</p>

<p>“I only came to tell you that I'd taken that mixed
melting-point. It's hyoscine picrate, as you thought it
was.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” Silverdale returned. “I'll come round
to your room in a few minutes. Please wait for
me.”</p>

<p>Something in the brief exchange of information
seemed to have attracted Sir Clinton's attention. He
glanced at the girl as she turned to leave the room; then
he appeared to re-concentrate his mind upon
Flamborough's questions.</p>

<p>“Now, Dr. Silverdale,” Flamborough went on, “this
is a very nasty business, and I don't mind admitting
that we're in the dark just now. Can you think of
anything which might connect the deaths of the maid and
Mrs. Silverdale?”</p>

<p>Silverdale stared at the floor for a time, as though
turning possibilities over in his mind.</p>

<p>“I can't imagine how there could be any connection
whatever,” he said at last.</p>

<p>Flamborough decided to approach the most awkward
part of his subject. It was impossible to tell from his
manner what was coming next, but it was clear that he
had something important to ask.</p>

<p>“Now, Dr. Silverdale, I want to be as tactful as I
can; but if I go over the score, I hope you'll take the
will for the deed.”</p>

<p>“Oh, you can be as blunt as you like,” Silverdale
retorted, with the first signs of impatience which he
had shown. “Ask what you choose.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” the Inspector answered with apparent
relief. “Then I'll come straight to the point. What
precisely were the relations existing between Mrs.
Silverdale and young Hassendean?”</p>

<p>Silverdale's face paled slightly and his lips tightened
as this blunt response to his offer fell on his ears. He
seemed to consider his reply carefully.</p>

<p>“I suppose you mean: ‘Was she unfaithful to me
with young Hassendean?’ Then my answer would be:
‘So far as my information goes, no.’ She flirted with the
young cub certainly; and they behaved, to my mind,
very injudiciously; but to the best of my knowledge it
went no further than that. I'd have brought them up
with a round turn if they'd given me cause.”</p>

<p>“That's your candid opinion?” the Inspector
demanded. “You're keeping back nothing?”</p>

<p>“Why, man, I'd have given . . .” Silverdale broke
out. Then he stopped short in mid-sentence. “It's my
candid opinion, as you put it,” he ended tamely.</p>

<p>Flamborough, it seemed, had extracted the information
he wanted. He left the subject and took up a fresh
one.</p>

<p>“Do you recall anything important which happened
in the year 1925?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I left London and took up my post here.”</p>

<p>“You were married in 1923, weren't you?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Had your wife any relations in this country? She
was French, wasn't she?”</p>

<p>“She had a brother, Octave Renard, who was in
business in London. Still is, as a matter of fact. An old
aunt is the only other relation I know of.”</p>

<p>“Before you left London, had you any difficulties
with Mrs. Silverdale—I mean anything like young
Hassendean?”</p>

<p>“Nothing that came to my notice,” Silverdale
answered, after consulting his memory.</p>

<p>“Can you recall any friend of yours or of hers who
had the initial B? Either in the Christian name or the
surname, I mean. It might be either a man or a
woman.”</p>

<p>This question evidently surprised Silverdale.</p>

<p>“The initial B?” he repeated. “No. I can't recall
anyone to fit that.”</p>

<p>He seemed to be running over a list of people in his
mind, but at the end of half-a-minute he shook his
head decidedly.</p>

<p>“No. I can't think of anyone with that initial.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's face betrayed his dissatisfaction. He
had evidently built some hopes on getting the
information.</p>

<p>“Now, another point, Dr. Silverdale. Have you any
reason to suppose that Mrs. Silverdale was addicted
to drugs?”</p>

<p>This time, Silverdale's surprise at the question was
quite unfeigned:</p>

<p>“Drugs? Of course not! Unless you count cocktails
as drugs. What on earth put that into your mind?”</p>

<p>The Inspector rather shamefacedly abandoned this
line of inquiry, and turned to something else.</p>

<p>“I'd like to hear anything you can tell me about
young Hassendean, sir. He worked here in the Institute,
didn't he?”</p>

<p>“That depends a good deal on what precise meaning
you attach to the word ‘work,’ Inspector. He certainly
loafed about the premises, but he did as little as he
could.”</p>

<p>“Well,” said Flamborough, impatiently, “can you
tell me anything else about him? Everyone I've
interviewed yet has told me he was idle. I'd rather have
something more to the point.”</p>

<p>Silverdale thought for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“He was a nuisance from the start. When he came
here first—some three years ago—he spent his time
hanging round one of the girl-assistants: Miss Hailsham.
He interfered with her work, and I had to speak to him
about it several times. Then she got engaged to him.
Some time after, my wife took him up, and he broke off
his engagement to Miss Hailsham—possibly to please
my wife. I remember it made things rather unpleasant
here when the engagement was broken, because Miss
Hailsham took it rather badly. She'd every reason to do
so, though she wasn't losing much, it seemed to me.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough pricked up his ears at this
information.</p>

<p>“Is this Miss Hailsham still an assistant here?” he
asked.</p>

<p>“Yes,” Silverdale explained. “She's one of my
private assistants. I have several girls who do routine
work; but Miss Hailsham and Miss Deepcar—the girl
who came in here a moment ago—are a shade better
than the usual run.”</p>

<p>“Could you make an excuse to let me have a look at
Miss Hailsham?” Flamborough inquired.</p>

<p>“She's not here to-day,” Silverdale answered. “Off
with a sore throat, or something of that sort. But if
you'll come back another time, I can take you to her
room if you wish. You can pose as a visitor whom I'm
showing round, if you don't want to appear officially.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir. I'll drop in some other day. Now,
another point, if you don't mind. Mrs. Silverdale wore
a signet ring. Can you tell me anything about it? Did
she get it from you or did she buy it herself?”</p>

<p>“I didn't make her a present of it,” Silverdale
answered promptly. “I believe she got it made by some
jeweller or other. I remember a few years ago she took
it into her head to seal all her letters—some passing fad
in the crowd she used to associate with, I suppose. But
once she started doing it, she kept it up. I think she
must have got the signet ring made for that purpose.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough nodded thoughtfully as
though he attached some importance to this
information. Then, in a casual tone he inquired:</p>

<p>“You weren't at home last night, of course? Where
were you?”</p>

<p>“I was——”</p>

<p>Suddenly a thought seemed to cross Silverdale's mind
and he halted abruptly in his sentence. Then he
amended his statement most obviously.</p>

<p>“I spent the night working here.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough noted the words in his
pocket-book with marked deliberation. Then he looked
round the room and seemed dissatisfied with something.
As though to give himself time to think before
asking another question, he moved over to the window
and gazed down thoughtfully into the main thoroughfare
below. Whatever his reflections may have been,
the result of them was singularly feeble. He turned back
to Silverdale and put a final question:</p>

<p>“I suppose you can't think of any other point that
might help us to throw light on this business, sir?”</p>

<p>Silverdale shook his head decidedly.</p>

<p>“I'm quite in the dark about it all.”</p>

<p>The Inspector looked him up and down deliberately
for a moment.</p>

<p>“Well, in that case, sir, I don't think we need take
up any more of your time. I'll remove the police from
your house. It's been disinfected already by the
sanitary people, so you can go back there any time you
choose, now. Thanks for the help you've given us.”</p>

<p>Flamborough did not speak to Sir Clinton until they
had put the length of a corridor between themselves
and Silverdale's laboratory.</p>

<p>“I think I'll drop in and see Dr. Markfield again,
sir,” he explained. “I'm not at all satisfied about some
things.”</p>

<p>“Do so, Inspector. I quite agree with you!”</p>

<p>“I'll make an excuse about the arrangements for
this analysis. Not that I'll lay much stress on
Markfield's results when we get them, sir. He's made a bad
impression on me over that evidence he gave us before.
People shouldn't equivocate in a murder case merely
to shield their friends. We've troubles enough without
that sort of thing.”</p>

<p>“Well, handle him tactfully, Inspector, or he may
turn stubborn. If he takes refuge in ‘I don't
remember,’ or anything of that sort, you'll not get much out
of him.” Sir Clinton observed.</p>

<p>“I shan't frighten him,” Flamborough assured
him, as they approached Markfield's room.</p>

<p>As they entered, Markfield looked up in surprise at
seeing them once more.</p>

<p>“It's just occurred to me that I forgot to make
arrangements about handing that stuff over to you for
analysis,” Flamborough said, as he went forward.
“It'll be in sealed jars, of course; and I'd prefer to
hand it over to you personally. I suppose I could always
get hold of you either here or at your house?”</p>

<p>“You'd better come here. My housekeeper's away
just now nursing some relation who's down with 'flu,
and my house is empty except when I happen to be at
home myself. You'll find me here between nine in the
morning and six at night—except for lunch-time, of
course. I generally clear out of here at six and dine
down town.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you have a long enough day of it,” the
Inspector said in a casual tone. “You don't come back
here and work in the evening?”</p>

<p>“Sometimes, if there's something interesting that
brings me back. But I haven't done that for weeks
past.”</p>

<p>“This place is shut up at night, isn't it? I mean,
you don't keep a porter or a watchman on the
premises?”</p>

<p>“No. But each of the seniors has a private key, of
course. I can get in any time I wish. It's the same at
the Research Station.”</p>

<p>The Inspector seemed to be struck by an idea.</p>

<p>“Any valuable stuff on the premises, by any
chance?”</p>

<p>“Nothing a thief could make much out of. There's
a thousand or fifteen hundred pounds worth of
platinum, dishes, electrodes, and so forth, in the safe.
I believe the man on the beat is supposed to give special
attention to the place and notify anything suspicious
immediately; but I've never known anything of the
sort to happen.”</p>

<p>“Rather a difficult position for our men if the staff
can come and go freely at night,” the Inspector pointed
out. “If a constable sees a light in the window, what's
he to make of it? Does Dr. Silverdale work late often?”</p>

<p>“I really couldn't tell you.”</p>

<p>“You don't see much of him privately, sir?”</p>

<p>“Very little,” Markfield answered. “Only when I
run across him by accident down town, like last
night.”</p>

<p>“You met him, did you?”</p>

<p>“Hardly even that. I happened to drop into the
Grosvenor for dinner after I left here. I can't get meals
at home just now unless I cook 'em myself. As I was
finishing my coffee, Silverdale came into the dining-room
with Miss Deepcar and took a table in the window
recess. I didn't disturb them, and I don't think they
noticed me.”</p>

<p>“Then they were just beginning dinner when you
left the place? What time was that, can you tell me?”</p>

<p>Markfield looked suspiciously at the Inspector.</p>

<p>“You're trying to get me to say something that you
want to use against—well, someone else, shall we say?
I don't care about it, frankly. But since you could get
the information from the waiter who served them,
there's no harm done. I went to the Grosvenor at
6.35 or thereabouts. I was going down to the Research
Station afterwards to pick up some notes, so I dined
early that night. Silverdale and Miss Deepcar came in
just as I was finishing dinner—that would be about a
quarter past seven or thereby. I expect they were going
on to some show afterwards.”</p>

<p>“Was she in evening dress?”</p>

<p>“Ask me another. I never can tell whether a girl's
in evening dress or not, nowadays, with these new
fashions.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough closed his notebook and
took his leave, followed by Sir Clinton. When they
reached the street again and had got into the waiting
car, the Chief Constable turned to his subordinate.</p>

<p>“You collected a lot of interesting information that
time.”</p>

<p>“I noticed you left it all to me, sir; but I think I
got one or two things worth having. It's a bit
disconnected; and it'll take some thinking before it's
straightened out.”</p>

<p>“What's your main inference, as things stand?”
Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it's a bit early yet. But I've been
wondering about one thing, certainly.”</p>

<p>“And that is?”</p>

<p>“And that is whether Peeping Tom's name wasn't
Thomasina,” Flamborough announced gravely.</p>

<p>“There are two sexes, of course,” Sir Clinton
admitted with equal gravity. “And inquisitiveness is
supposed to be more strongly developed in the female
than in the male. The next thing will be to consider
whether Mr. Justice shouldn't be rechristened Justitia.
One ought to take all possibilities into account.”</p>

<h2>Chapter VIII. <br/> The Hassendean Journal</h2>

<p>When Ronald Hassendean's journal was found to
consist of four bulky volumes of manuscript, Sir Clinton
hastily disclaimed any desire to make its acquaintance <i lang="la">in
extenso</i> and passed over to Inspector Flamborough
the task of ploughing through it in detail and
selecting those passages which seemed to have direct
bearing on the case. The Inspector took the diary home
with him and spent a laborious evening, lightened at
times by flashes of cynical enjoyment when the writer
laid bare certain aspects of his soul. Next day
Flamborough presented himself at Sir Clinton's office with
the books under his arm; and the paper slips which
he had used as markers made a formidable array as
they projected from the edges of the volumes.</p>

<p>“Good Lord!” exclaimed the Chief Constable in
consternation. “Do you mean to say I ought to read
through about a hundred and fifty passages in inferior
handwriting? Life's too short for that. Take 'em away,
Inspector, and get someone to write me a <i lang="fr">précis</i>.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's lips opened into a broad smile under
his toothbrush moustache.</p>

<p>“It's not really so bad as it looks, sir,” he
explained. “The white slips were put in to mark
anything that seemed to bear remotely on the business;
but the passages directly relevant to the affair are
indicated by red slips. I think you ought to glance
through that last lot. There aren't really very many of
them.”</p>

<p>He deposited the volumes on Sir Clinton's desk so
that the marking-tabs projected towards his superior.
Sir Clinton eyed them without any enthusiasm.</p>

<p>“Well, I suppose duty calls, Inspector. I'll go over
them with you, just in case you want to give me any
special points drawn from your general reading in the
Works of Hassendean. If you've got a morbid craving
for voluminous writers, you'd better start on the <i>Faerie
Queene</i>. It, also, leads up to the death of a Blatant
Beast.”</p>

<p>“I read a bit of it at school, sir. I'm keeping the rest
for a rainy day.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton again eyed the four stout volumes with
unconcealed aversion. Quite obviously he was ready
to catch at anything in order to postpone the examination
of them, even now that he had decided to submit
to the Inspector's ruling.</p>

<p>“Before I start on this stuff, there are one or two
points I want to get cleared up. First of all, did you get
any reports in reply to our inquiries about young
Hassendean's car being seen on the roads that night?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. The only motor information we got was
about one car that was stolen under cover of the fog.
It's being looked into. Oh, yes, and there was an
inquiry for the name and address of the owner of a car.
It seems somebody got hit by a motor and managed
to take its number. I don't think any real damage was
done. It's just one of these try-on cases.”</p>

<p>“Something more important now. Did you find out
from the man on the beat whether there was a light in
Silverdale's room at the Croft-Thornton on the night
of the murders?”</p>

<p>“How did you come to think of that, sir? I didn't
mention it to you.”</p>

<p>“It was just a long shot, Inspector. As soon as
Silverdale stated that he had been working all that night at
the Croft-Thornton, I was pretty sure he was lying.
So were you, I guessed. Then you walked across to the
window and looked down. As I was wondering myself
whether the window was visible from the street, it
didn't take much mind-reading to see what you were
driving at. And from your questions to Markfield later
on, I couldn't help inferring that you had the
constable on the beat at the back of your thoughts.
Obviously you meant to check Silverdale's story by
asking the constable on duty if he'd noticed a light in
Silverdale's room that night. There was no light, of
course?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. There wasn't a light anywhere in the
building, that night. I made the constable look up his
notebook.”</p>

<p>“Then you've caught Master Silverdale in a very
bad lie. By the way, I suppose you noticed that girl
who came into his room while we were talking to him:
the Miss Deepcar who dined with him down town that
night. What did you make of her?”</p>

<p>“Pretty girl, sir, very pretty indeed. The quiet sort,
I'd judge. One of the kind that a man might do a good
deal to get hold of, if he was keen on her.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's expression showed that he did not
disagree with the Inspector's summing up.</p>

<p>“By the way,” he continued, “did you take
any note of what she said to Silverdale at that
time?”</p>

<p>“Not particularly, sir. It was all Greek to me—too
technical.”</p>

<p>“It interested me, though,” Sir Clinton confessed.
“I've a chemical friend—the London man who's
going to act as a check on Markfield for us in the search
for the poison, as a matter of fact—and he talks to me
occasionally about chemistry. You don't know what a
‘mixed melting-point’ is, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. It sounds confused,” said the Inspector
mischievously.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable treated this as beneath
contempt.</p>

<p>“I'll explain the point,” he pursued, “and then
you'll know as much as I do. A pure substance melts
at a higher temperature than it does when it's
contaminated by even a trace of some foreign material.
Suppose that you had been given a stuff which you
thought was pure quinine and you had no chemicals
handy to do the ordinary tests for quinine. What you'd
do would be this. You'd take the melting-point of your
sample first of all. Then to the sample you'd add a
trace of something which you knew definitely was
quinine—a specimen from your laboratory stock, say.
Then you'd take the melting-point of this mixture.
Suppose the second melting-point is lower than the first,
then obviously you've been adding an impurity to your
original sample. And since something, that you know
definitely to be quinine, has acted as an impurity, then
clearly the original stuff isn't quinine. On the other
hand, if the addition of your trace of quinine to the
sample doesn't lower the melting-point, then your
original sample is proved to be quinine also. That
mixing of the two stuffs and taking the melting-point
is what they call ‘taking a mixed melting-point.’ Does
that convey anything to you?”</p>

<p>“Not a damn, sir,” Flamborough admitted crudely,
in a tone of despair. “Could you say it all over again
slowly?”</p>

<p>“It's hardly worth while at this stage,” Sir Clinton
answered, dismissing the subject. “I'll take it up
again with you later on, perhaps, after we get the P.M.
results. It was an illuminating conversation, though,
Inspector, if my guess turns out to be right. Now there's
another matter. Have you any idea when the morning
papers get into the hands of the public—I mean the
earliest hour that's likely in the normal course?”</p>

<p>“It happens that I do know that, sir. The local
delivery starts at 7 a.m. In the suburbs, it's a bit later,
naturally.”</p>

<p>“Just make sure about it, please. Ring up the
publishing departments of the <i>Courier</i> and the <i>Gazette</i>. You
needn't worry about the imported London papers.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir. And now about this journal, sir?”
the Inspector added with a touch of genial impishness
in his voice.</p>

<p>“Evidently you won't be happy till I look at it,” Sir
Clinton grumbled with obvious distaste for the task.
“Let's get it over, then, since you're set on the matter.”</p>

<p>“So far as I can see, sir,” Flamborough explained,
“there are only three threads in it that concern us:
the affair he had with that girl Hailsham; his
association with Mrs. Silverdale; and his financial
affairs—which came as a surprise to me, I must admit.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced up at the Inspector's words; but
without replying, he drew the fat volumes of the
journal towards him and began his examination of the
passages to which Flamborough's red markers drew
attention.</p>

<p>“He didn't model his style on Pepys, evidently,” he
said as he turned the leaves rapidly, “There seems to
be about ten per cent. of ‘I's’ on every page. Ah!
Here's your first red marker.”</p>

<p>He read the indicated passage carefully.</p>

<p>“This is the description of his feelings on getting
engaged to Norma Hailsham,” he commented aloud.
“It sounds rather superior, as if he felt he'd conferred a
distinct favour on her in the matter. Apparently, even in
the first flush of young love, he thought that he wasn't
getting all that his merits deserved. I don't think Miss
Hailsham would have been flattered if she'd been able
to read this at the time.”</p>

<p>He passed rapidly over some other passages without
audible comment, and then halted for a few moments
at an entry.</p>

<p>“Now we come to his meeting with Mrs. Silverdale,
and his first impressions of her. It seems that she
attracted him by her physique rather than by her
brains. Of course, as he observes: ‘What single woman
could fully satisfy all the sides of a complex nature like
mine?’ However, he catalogues Mrs. Silverdale's
attractions lavishly enough.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, with a recollection of the passage in his
mind, smiled cynically.</p>

<p>“That side of his complex nature was highly
developed, I should judge,” he affirmed. “It runs
through the stuff from start to finish.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned over a few more pages.</p>

<p>“It seems as though Miss Hailsham began to have
some inklings of his troubles,” he said, looking up from
the book. “This is the bit where he's complaining
about the limitations in women's outlooks, you
remember. Apparently he'd made his fiancée feel that his
vision took a wider sweep than she imagined, and she
seems to have suggested that he needn't spend so much
time in staring at Mrs. Silverdale. It's quite characteristic
that in this entry he's suddenly discovered that the
Hailsham girl's hands fail to reach the standard of
beauty which he thinks essential in a life-companion.
He has visions of sitting in suppressed irritation while
these hands pour out his breakfast coffee every day
through all the years of marriage. It seems to worry him
quite a lot.”</p>

<p>“You'll find that kind of thing developing as you go
on, sir. The plain truth is that he was tiring of the girl
and he simply jotted down everything he could see in
her that he didn't find good enough for him.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced over the next few entries.</p>

<p>“So I see, Inspector. Now it seems her dancing
isn't so good as he used to think it was.”</p>

<p>“Any stick to beat a dog with,” the Inspector
surmised.</p>

<p>“Now they seem to have got the length of a distinct
tiff, and he rushes at once to jot down a few bright
thoughts on jealousy with a quotation from Mr. Wells
in support of his thesis. It appears that this ‘entanglement,’
as he calls it, is cramping his individuality and
preventing the full self-expression of his complex
nature. I can't imagine how we got along without that
word ‘self-expression’ when we were young. It's a
godsend. I trust the inventor got a medal.”</p>

<p>“The next entry's rather important, sir,”
Flamborough warned him.</p>

<p>“Ah! Here we are. We come to action for a change
instead of all this wash of talk. This is the final
burst-up, eh? H'm!”</p>

<p>He read over the entry thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“Well, the Hailsham girl seems to have astonished
him when it came to the pinch. Even deducting
everything for his way of looking at things, she must
have been fairly furious. And Yvonne Silverdale's name
seems to have entered pretty deeply into the discussion.
‘She warned me she knew more than I thought she
did; and that she'd make me pay for what I was
doing.’ And again: ‘She said she'd stick at nothing to
get even with me.’ It seems to have been rather a vulgar
scene, altogether. ‘She wasn't going to be thrown over
for that woman without having her turn when it came.’
You know, Inspector, it sounds a bit vindictive, even
when it's filtered through him into his journal. The
woman scorned, and hell let loose, eh? I'm not greatly
taken with the picture of Miss Hailsham.”</p>

<p>“A bit of a virago,” the Inspector agreed. “What I
was wondering when I read that stuff was whether
she'd keep up to that standard permanently or whether
this was just a flash in the pan. If she's the kind that
treasures grievances. . . .”</p>

<p>“She might be an important piece in the jigsaw, you
mean? In any case, I suppose we'll have to get her
sized up somehow, since she plays a part in the story.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable turned back to the journal and
skimmed over a number of the entries.</p>

<p>“Do you know,” he pointed out after a time, “that
young fellow had an unpleasant mind.”</p>

<p>“You surprise me,” the Inspector retorted ironically.
“I suppose you've come to the place where he gets
really smitten with Mrs. Silverdale's charms?”</p>

<p>“Yes. There's a curious rising irritation through it
all. It's evident that she led him on, and then let him
down, time after time.”</p>

<p>“For all his fluff about his complex character and so
forth, he really seems to have been very simple,” was
Flamborough's verdict. “She led him a dance for
months; and anyone with half an eye could see all
along that she was only playing with him. It's as plain
as print, even in his own account of the business.”</p>

<p>“Quite, I admit. But you must remember that he
imagined he was out of the common—irresistible. He
couldn't bring himself to believe things were as they
were.”</p>

<p>“Turn to the later entries,” the Inspector advised;
and Sir Clinton did so.</p>

<p>“This is the one you mean? Where she turned him
down quite bluntly, so that even he got an inkling of
how matters really stood?”</p>

<p>“Yes. Now go on from there,” Flamborough
directed.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton passed from one red marker to the other,
reading the entries indicated at each of the points.</p>

<p>“The tune changes a bit; and his irritation seems
to be on the up-grade. One gets the impression that he's
casting round for a fresh method of getting his way and
that he hasn't found one that will do? Is that your
reading of it?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” Flamborough confirmed. “He talks about
getting his way ‘by hook or by crook,’ and one or two
other phrases that come to the same thing.”</p>

<p>“Well, that brings us up to a week ago. There seems
to be a change in his tone, now. More expectation and
less exasperation, if one can put it that way.”</p>

<p>“I read it that by that time he'd hit on his plan. He
was sure of its success, sir. Just go on to the next entry
please. There's something there about his triumph, as
he calls it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced down the page and as he did so
his face lit up for a moment as though he had seen one
of his inferences confirmed.</p>

<p>“This what you mean?” he asked. “ ‘And only I
shall know of my triumph’?”</p>

<p>“That's it, sir. High-falutin and all that; but it
points to his thinking he had the game in his hands.
I've puzzled my brains a bit over what he really meant
by it, though. One might read it that he meant to
murder the girl in the end. That would leave him as the
only living person who knew what had happened,
you see?”</p>

<p>“I'm not in a position to contradict that assumption,”
Sir Clinton confessed. “But so far as that goes,
I think you'll find the point cleared up in a day or two
at the rate we're going.”</p>

<p>“You're very optimistic, sir,” was all the Inspector
found to reply. “Now I've left one matter to the end,
because it may have no bearing on the case at all. The
last year of that journal is full of groans about his
finances. He seems to have spent a good deal more than
he could afford, in one way and another. I've noted
all the passages if you want to read them, sir. They're
among the set marked with white slips.”</p>

<p>“Just give me the gist of them,” the Chief Constable
suggested. “From that, I can see whether I want to
wade through the whole thing or not.”</p>

<p>“It's simple enough, sir. He's been borrowing money
on a scale that would be quite big for his resources.
And I gather from some of the entries that he had no
security that he could produce. It seems he daren't go
to his uncle and ask him to use his capital as
security—I mean young Hassendean's own capital which was
under his uncle's control as trustee. So he was persuaded
to insure his life in favour of his creditor for a good
round sum—figure not mentioned.”</p>

<p>“So in the present circumstances the moneylender
will rake in the whole sum insured, after paying only a
single premium?”</p>

<p>“Unless the insurance company can prove suicide.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton closed the last volume of the journal.</p>

<p>“I've heard of that sort of insurance racket before.
And of course you remember that shooting affair in
Scotland thirty years ago when the prosecution made a
strong point out of just this very type of transaction.
Have you had time to make any inquiries along that
line yet?”</p>

<p>Flamborough was evidently glad to get the
opportunity of showing his efficiency.</p>

<p>“I took it up at once, sir. In one entry, he mentioned
the name of the company: the Western Medical and
Mercantile Assurance Co. I put a trunk call through to
their head office and got the particulars of the policy.
It's for £5,000 and it's in favour of Dudley Amyas
Guisborough &amp; Co.—the moneylender.”</p>

<p>“Sounds very aristocratic,” the Chief Constable
commented.</p>

<p>“Oh, that's only his trade sign. His real name's
Spratton.”</p>

<p>“No claim been made yet?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. I don't suppose he's hurrying. The inquest
was adjourned, you remember; and until they bring in
some verdict excluding suicide, Spratton can't do much.
There's a suicide clause in the policy, I learned. But if
it pans out as a murder, then Spratton's £5,000 in
pocket.”</p>

<p>“In fact, Inspector, Mr. Justice is doing a very good
bit of work for Dudley Amyas Guisborough &amp; Co.”</p>

<p>Flamborough seemed struck by an idea.</p>

<p>“I'll go and pay a call on Mr. Spratton, I think. I'll
do it now.”</p>

<p>“Oh, he's a local light, is he?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. He was mixed up in a case last year. You
won't remember it, though. It never came to much.
Just an old man who fell into Spratton's hands and was
driven to suicide by the damnable rapacity of that
shark. Inspector Ferryside had to look into the matter,
and I remember talking over the case with him. That's
how it sticks in my memory.”</p>

<p>“Well, see what you can make of him, Inspector.
But I shan't be disappointed if you come back empty-handed.
Even if he were mixed up in this affair, he'll
have taken good care not to leave a straight string
leading back to his front door. If it was a case of murder
for profit, you know, there would be plenty of time
to draw up a pretty good scheme beforehand. It
wouldn't be done on the spur of the moment.”</p>

<h2>Chapter IX. <br/> The Creditor</h2>

<p>Inspector Flamborough's orderly mind found something
to respect in the businesslike appearance of the
moneylender's premises. As he waited at the counter
of the outer office while his card was submitted to the
principal, he was struck by the spick-and-span appearance
of the fittings and the industry of the small staff.</p>

<p>“Quite impressive as a fly-trap,” he ruminated.
“Looks like a good solid business with plenty of money
to spend. And the clerks have good manners, too.
Spratton's evidently bent on making a nice impression
on new clients.”</p>

<p>He was not kept waiting more than a minute before
the clerk returned and ushered him into a room which
had very little of the office in its furnishings. As he
entered, a clean-shaven man in the late thirties rose
from an arm-chair beside the fire. At the first glance,
his appearance seemed to strike some chord in the
Inspector's memory; and Flamborough found himself
pursuing an elusive recollection which he failed to run
to ground.</p>

<p>The moneylender seemed to regard the Inspector's
visit as a perfectly normal event. His manner was genial
without being effusive.</p>

<p>“Come in, Inspector,” he invited, with a gesture
towards one of the comfortable chairs. “Try a
cigarette?”</p>

<p>He proffered a large silver box, but Flamborough
declined to smoke.</p>

<p>“And what can I do for you?” Spratton inquired
pleasantly, replacing the box on the mantelpiece.
“Money's very tight these days.”</p>

<p>“I'm not a client,” Flamborough informed him,
with a slightly sardonic smile. “Sorry to disappoint
you.”</p>

<p>The moneylender's eyes narrowed, but otherwise he
showed no outward sign of his feelings.</p>

<p>“Then I'm rather at a loss to know what you want,”
he confessed, without any lapse from his initial geniality.
“I run my business strictly within the four corners of
the Act. You've no complaint about that?”</p>

<p>The Inspector had no intention of wasting time.</p>

<p>“It's this affair of young Hassendean,” he explained.
“The young fellow who was murdered the other day.
You must have seen the case in the papers. I understand
he was a client of yours.”</p>

<p>A flash of intelligence passed over the moneylender's
face, but he suppressed it almost instantly.</p>

<p>“Hassendean?” he repeated, as though cudgelling
his memory. “I've some recollection of the name. But
my business is a large one, and I don't profess to carry
all the details in my head.”</p>

<p>He stepped over to the bell and rang it. When a clerk
appeared in answer to the summons, the moneylender
turned to give an order:</p>

<p>“I think we had some transactions with a Mr.
Hassendean—Mr. Ronald Hassendean, isn't it?” he
glanced at Flamborough for confirmation, and then
continued: “Just bring me that file, Plowden.”</p>

<p>It did not take the Inspector long to make up his
mind that this by-play was intended merely to give
Spratton time to find his bearings; but Flamborough
waited patiently until the clerk returned and placed a
filing-case on the table. Spratton turned over the leaves
for a few moments, as though refreshing his memory.</p>

<p>“This fellow would have made a good actor,”
Flamborough reflected with a certain admiration. “He
does it deuced well. But who the devil does he remind
me of?”</p>

<p>Spratton's nicely-calculated interlude came to an
end, and he turned back to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“You're quite right. I find that he had some
transactions with us!”</p>

<p>“They began about eleven months ago, didn't
they?”</p>

<p>The moneylender nodded in confirmation.</p>

<p>“I find that I lent him £100 first of all. Two months
after that—he not having repaid anything—I lent him
£200. Then there was a further item of £300 in April,
part of which he seems to have paid back to me later
on in order to square up for the interest which he
hadn't paid.”</p>

<p>“What security had you for these loans?”</p>

<p>Again the moneylender's eyes narrowed for a
moment; but his manner betrayed nothing.</p>

<p>“Up to that time, I was quite satisfied with his
prospects.”</p>

<p>“And after that he borrowed more from you?”</p>

<p>“Apparently.” Spratton made a pretence of
consulting the file. “He came to me in June for another
£500, and of course the interest was mounting up
gradually.”</p>

<p>“He must have been making the money fly,”
Flamborough suggested with a certain indifference. “I wish
I could see my way to splash dibs at that rate. It would
be a new experience. But when it came to figures of
that size, I suppose you expected something better
in the way of security?”</p>

<p>Despite the Inspector's casual tone, the moneylender
seemed to suspect a trap.</p>

<p>“Well, by that time he was in my books for well over
a thousand.”</p>

<p>He appeared to feel that frankness would be best.</p>

<p>“I arranged matters for him,” he continued. “He
took out a policy on his life with the Western Medical
and Mercantile. I have the policy in my safe if you wish
to see it.”</p>

<p>“Of course you allowed a reasonable margin for
contingencies, I suppose?” Flamborough inquired
sympathetically.</p>

<p>“Oh, naturally I expected him to go on borrowing,
so I had to allow a fair margin for contingencies. The
policy was for £5,000.”</p>

<p>“So you're about £4,000 in pocket, now that he's
dead,” Flamborough commented enviously. “Some
people are lucky.”</p>

<p>“Against that you've got to offset the bad debts I
make,” Spratton pointed out.</p>

<p>Flamborough could not pretend to himself that he
had managed to elicit much of importance during his
call; but he had no excuse for prolonging the
interview. He rose to his feet.</p>

<p>“I don't suppose we shall need any of these facts if
it comes to trying anyone,” he said, as he prepared to
leave. “If we do, you'll have plenty of warning, of
course.”</p>

<p>The moneylender opened a door which allowed a
direct exit into the corridor, and Flamborough went
out. As he walked along the passage, he was still racking
his memory to discover who Spratton resembled; and
at last, as he reached the pavement outside, it flashed
into his mind.</p>

<p>“Of course! It's the Chief! Put a moustache on to
that fellow and dye his hair a bit and he might pass for
Driffield in the dusk. He's not a twin-brother; but
there's a resemblance of sorts, undoubtedly.”</p>

<p>He returned to headquarters feeling that he had
wasted his time over the moneylender. Except that he
had now seen the man in the flesh and had an
opportunity of sizing him up, he was really no further
forward than he had been before; for the few actual
figures of transactions which he had obtained were
obviously of little interest in themselves.</p>

<p>As he entered the police station, a constable came
forward.</p>

<p>“There's a gentleman here, Inspector Flamborough.
He's called about the Silverdale case and he wants to
see you. He's a foreigner of the name of Renard.”</p>

<p>“Very well. Send him along to me,” Flamborough
ordered.</p>

<p>In a few moments, the constable ushered in a small
man with a black moustache and a shock of stiffly-brushed
hair which gave him a foreign appearance.
The Inspector was relieved to find that he spoke perfect
English, though with a slight accent.</p>

<p>“My name is Octave Renard,” he introduced
himself. “I am the brother of Mrs. Yvonne Silverdale.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, with a certain admiration for the
fortitude of the little man in the tragic circumstances,
made haste to put him at his ease by expressing his
sympathy.</p>

<p>“Yes, very sad,” said the little Frenchman, with an
obvious effort to keep himself under control. “I was
very fond of my sister, you understand. She was so
gay, so fond of life. She enjoyed herself every moment
of the day. And now——”</p>

<p>A gesture filled out the missing phrase.</p>

<p>Flamborough's face betrayed his commiseration;
but he was a busy man, and could ill afford to waste
time.</p>

<p>“You wished to see me about something?”</p>

<p>“All I know is what was printed in the newspapers,”
Renard explained. “I would like to learn the truth of
the case—the real facts. And you are in charge of the
case, I was told. So I come to you.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, after a moment's hesitation, gave him
an outline of the bungalow tragedy, softening some of
the details and omitting anything which he thought
it undesirable to make public. Renard listened, with an
occasional nervous twitch which showed that his
imagination was at work, clothing the bare bones of the
Inspector's narrative with flesh.</p>

<p>“It is a bad business,” he said, shaking his head
mournfully as Flamborough concluded. “To think
that such a thing should have happened just when
she had had her great stroke of good-fortune! It is
incredible, the irony of Fate.”</p>

<p>The Inspector pricked up his ears.</p>

<p>“She'd had a piece of good luck, lately, you say,
Mr. Renard? What was that?”</p>

<p>“You do not know?” the little man inquired in
surprise. “But surely her husband must have told you?
No?”</p>

<p>Flamborough shook his head.</p>

<p>“That is strange,” Renard continued. “I do not
quite understand that. My sister was the favourite of
her aunt. She was down in her will, you understand?
And my aunt was a very wealthy woman. Pots of
money, as you English say. For some time my aunt has
been in feeble health. She has been going downhill for
the last year or more. A heart trouble, you understand.
And just a fortnight ago, puff!—she went out
like that. Like a blown-out candle.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” the Inspector prompted.</p>

<p>“Her will was in the keeping of her lawyer and he
communicated the contents to myself and my sister.
We were trustees, you see. I had a little bequest to
myself; but the principal sum went to my sister. I
was surprised; I had not thought that my aunt had so
much money—mostly in American stocks and shares.
In your English money it came to about £12,000. In
francs, of course, it is colossal—a million and a half at
least.”</p>

<p>“Ah!” interjected Flamborough, now keenly
interested. “And your sister knew of this?”</p>

<p>“She learned it from me just two days before her
death. And you understand, there was no grief with it.
My aunt had suffered terribly in the last few months.
Angina pectoris, very painful. We were quite glad to
see her suffering at an end.”</p>

<p>Flamborough felt that this fresh piece of information
needed consideration before he ventured on to the
ground which had been disclosed.</p>

<p>“Are you staying in Westerhaven, Mr. Renard?”
he inquired.</p>

<p>“Yes, for a few days yet, I expect,” the little man
answered. “I have some legal matters in my hands
which need my presence on the spot. As my sister is
now dead, there is the disposal of this money to be
considered. I find difficulties which I had not expected.”</p>

<p>“And your address during your stay will be?”</p>

<p>“I am at the Imperial Hotel. You can always find
me there.”</p>

<p>“Well, Mr. Renard, I'd like to have a talk with you
later on, if I may. Just at present, I'm very busy.
Perhaps you could spare a few minutes when my hands
are free.”</p>

<p>“I shall be delighted,” Renard acquiesced. “Whenever
you wish to see me, send a message. I am much
worried, you understand?” he concluded, with a
quiver in his voice which pierced through the official
coating of Flamborough and touched the softer material
inside.</p>

<h2>Chapter X. <br/> Information Received</h2>

<p>For the next day or two, Sir Clinton's interest in the
Hassendean case appeared to have faded out; and
Inspector Flamborough, after following up one or two
clues which eventually proved useless, was beginning to
feel perturbed by the lack of direct progress which the
investigation showed. Rather to his relief, one morning
the Chief Constable summoned him to his office.
Flamborough began a somewhat apologetic account
of his fruitless investigations; but Sir Clinton cut him
short with a word or two of appreciation of his zeal.</p>

<p>“Here's something more definite for you to go on,”
he suggested. “I've just had a preliminary report from
the London man whom we put on to search for the
poison. I asked him to let me have a private opinion at
the earliest possible moment. His official report will
come in later, of course.”</p>

<p>“Has he spotted it, sir?” the Inspector inquired
eagerly.</p>

<p>“He's reached the same conclusion as I did—and
as I suppose you did also,” Sir Clinton assured him.</p>

<p>Flamborough looked puzzled.</p>

<p>“I didn't spot it myself,” he confessed diffidently.
“In fact, I don't see how there was anything to show
definitely what stuff it was, barring dilatation of the
eye-pupils, and that might have been due to various
drugs.”</p>

<p>“You should never lose an opportunity of exercising
your powers of inference, Inspector. I mustn't rob you
of this one. Now put together two things: the episode
of the mixed melting-point and the phrase about his
‘triumph’ that young Hassendean wrote in his journal.
Add the state of the girl's pupils as a third point—and
there you are!”</p>

<p>Flamborough pondered for a while over this
assortment of information, but finally shook his head.</p>

<p>“I don't see it yet, sir.”</p>

<p>“In that case,” Sir Clinton declared, with the air of
one bestowing benevolence, “I think we'd better let it
dawn on you slowly. You might be angry with yourself
if you realised all of a sudden how simple it is.”</p>

<p>He rose to his feet as he spoke.</p>

<p>“I think we'll pay a visit to the Croft-Thornton
Institute now, and see how Markfield has been getting
along with his examination. We may as well have a
check, before we begin to speculate too freely.”</p>

<p>They found Markfield in his laboratory, and Sir
Clinton came to business at once.</p>

<p>“We came over to see how you were getting on with
that poison business, Dr. Markfield. Can you give us
any news?”</p>

<p>Markfield indicated a notebook on his desk.</p>

<p>“I've got it out, I think. It's all there; but I haven't
had time to write a proper report on it yet. It was——”</p>

<p>“Hyoscine?” Sir Clinton interrupted.</p>

<p>Markfield stared at him with evident appreciation.</p>

<p>“You're quite right,” he confirmed, with some
surprise. “I suppose you've got private information.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable evaded the point.</p>

<p>“I'm asking this question only for our own
information; you won't be asked to swear to it in court. What
amount of hyoscine do you think was in the body,
altogether? I mean, judging from the results you
obtained yourself.”</p>

<p>Markfield considered for a moment.</p>

<p>“I'm giving you a guess, but I think it's fairly near
the mark. I wouldn't, of course, take my oath on it.
But the very smallest quantity, judging from my results,
would be somewhere in the neighbourhood of seven or
eight milligrammes.”</p>

<p>“Have you looked up anything about the stuff—maximum
dose, and so forth?” Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“The maximum dose of hyoscine hydrobromide is
down in the books as six-tenths of a milligramme—about
a hundredth of a grain in apothecaries’ weights.”</p>

<p>“Then she must have swallowed ten or twelve times
the maximum dose,” Sir Clinton calculated, after a
moment or two of mental arithmetic.</p>

<p>He paused for a space, then turned again to
Markfield.</p>

<p>“I'd like to see the hyoscine in your store here, if you
can lay your hands on it easily.”</p>

<p>Markfield made no objection.</p>

<p>“If you'd come in yesterday, the bottle would have
been here, beside me. I've taken it back to the shelf
now.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you borrowed it to do a mixed
melting-point?” Sir Clinton asked.</p>

<p>“Yes. When there's only a trace of a stuff to identify,
it's the easiest method. But you seem to know something
about chemistry?”</p>

<p>“About enough to make mistakes with, I'm afraid.
It simply happened that someone described the mixed
melting-point business to me once; and it stuck in my
mind. Now suppose we look at this store of yours.”</p>

<p>Markfield led them along a passage and threw open
a door at the end.</p>

<p>“In here,” he said.</p>

<p>“You don't keep it locked?” Sir Clinton inquired
casually, as he passed in, followed by the Inspector.</p>

<p>“No,” Markfield answered in some surprise. “It's
the general chemical store for this department. There's
no point in keeping it locked. All our stuffs are here,
and it would be a devilish nuisance if one had to fish
out a key every time one wanted some chloroform or
benzene. We keep the duty-free alcohol locked up, of
course. That's necessary under the Customs’
regulations.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton readily agreed.</p>

<p>“You're all trustworthy people, naturally,” he
admitted, “It's not like a place where you have junior
students about who might play thoughtless tricks.”</p>

<p>Markfield went over to one of the cases which lined
the room, searched along a shelf, and took down a tiny
bottle.</p>

<p>“Here's the stuff,” he explained, holding it out to the
Chief Constable. “That's the hydrobromide, of course—a
salt of the alkaloid itself. This is the compound
that's used in medicine.”</p>

<p>Now that he had got it, Sir Clinton seemed to have
little interest in the substance. He handed it across to
Flamborough who, after looking at it with would-be
sagacity, returned it to Markfield.</p>

<p>“There's just one other point that occurs to me,” the
Chief Constable explained, as Markfield returned the
poison-bottle to its original place. “Have you, by any
chance, got an old notebook belonging to young
Hassendean on the premises? Anything of the sort
would do.”</p>

<p>The Inspector could make nothing of this demand
and his face betrayed his perplexity as he considered it.
Markfield thought for a few moments before replying,
evidently trying to recall the existence of any article
which would suit Sir Clinton's purpose.</p>

<p>“I think I've got a rough notebook of his
somewhere in my room,” he said at last. “But it's only a
record of weighings and things like that. Would it do?”</p>

<p>“The very thing,” Sir Clinton declared, gratefully.
“I'd be much obliged if you could lay your hands on
it for me now. I hope it isn't troubling you too much.”</p>

<p>It was evident from Markfield's expression that he
was as much puzzled as the Inspector; and his curiosity
seemed to quicken his steps on the way back to his
room. After a few minutes’ hunting, he unearthed the
notebook of which he was in search and laid it on the
table before Sir Clinton. Flamborough, familiar with
young Hassendean's writing, had no difficulty in seeing
that the notes were in the dead man's hand.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned over the leaves idly, examining an
entry here and there. The last one seemed to satisfy
him, and he put an end to his inspection. Flamborough
bent over the table and was mystified to find only the
following entry on the exposed leaf:</p>

<table class="calculations">
<tbody><tr>
<td class="w">Weight of potash bulb</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">50.7789</td><td>grs.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="w">Weight of potash bulb + CO₂</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">50.9825</td><td>grs.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td/><td colspan="3">───────────</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="w">Weight of CO₂</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">0.2046</td><td>grs.</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>“By the way,” said Sir Clinton casually, “do you
happen to have one of your own notebooks at
hand—something with the same sort of thing in them?”</p>

<p>Markfield, obviously puzzled, went over to a drawer
and pulled out a notebook which he passed to the Chief
Constable. Again Sir Clinton skimmed over the pages,
apparently at random, and then left the second book
open beside the first one. Flamborough, determined to
miss nothing, examined the exposed page in Markfield's
notebook, and was rewarded by this:—</p>

<table class="calculations">
<tbody><tr>
<td class="w">Weight of U-tube</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">24.7792</td><td>gms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="w">Weight of U-tube + H₂O</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">24.9047</td><td>gms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td/><td colspan="3">───────────</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="w">Weight of H₂O</td>
<td>=</td><td class="n">0.1255</td><td>gms.</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>“Damned if I see what he's driving at,” the Inspector
said savagely to himself. “It's Greek to me.”</p>

<p>“A careless young fellow,” the Chief Constable
pronounced acidly. “My eye caught three blunders in
plain arithmetic as I glanced through these notes.
There's one on this page here,” he indicated the open
book. “He seems to have been a very slapdash sort of
person.”</p>

<p>“An unreliable young hound!” was Markfield's
slightly intensified description. “It was pure influence
that kept him here for more than a week. Old Thornton,
who put up most of the money for building this place,
was interested in him—knew his father, I think—and so
we had to keep the young pup here for fear of rasping
old Thornton's feelings. Otherwise. . . .”</p>

<p>The gesture accompanying the aposiopesis expressed
Markfield's idea of the fate which would at once have
befallen young Hassendean had his protector's
influence been withdrawn.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable appeared enlightened by this
fresh information.</p>

<p>“I couldn't imagine how you came to let him have
the run of the place for so long,” he confessed. “But, of
course, as things were, it was evidently cheaper to keep
him, even if he did no useful work. One can't afford to
alienate one's benefactors.”</p>

<p>After a pause, he continued, reverting apparently to
an earlier line of thought:</p>

<p>“Let's see. You made out that something like twelve
times the normal dose of hyoscine had been
administered?”</p>

<p>Markfield nodded his assent, but qualified it in
words:</p>

<p>“That's a rough figure, remember.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” Sir Clinton agreed. “As a matter of
fact, the multiple I had in my mind was 15. I suppose
it's quite possible that some of the stuff escaped you and
that your figure is an under-estimate?”</p>

<p>“Quite likely,” Markfield admitted frankly. “I gave
you the lowest figure, naturally—a figure I could swear
to if it came to the point. As it's a legal case, it's safer to
be under than over the mark. But quite probably, as
you say, I didn't manage to isolate all the stuff that was
really present; and I wouldn't deny that the quantity
in the body may have run up to ten milligrammes or
even slightly over it.”</p>

<p>“Well, it's perhaps hardly worth bothering about,”
the Chief Constable concluded. “The main thing is
that even at the lowest estimate she must have
swallowed enough of the poison to kill her in a reasonably
short time.”</p>

<p>With this he seemed satisfied, and after a few questions
about the preparation and submission of Markfield's
official report, he took his leave. As he turned away,
however, a fresh thought seemed to strike him.</p>

<p>“By the way, Dr. Markfield, do you know if Miss
Hailsham's here this morning?”</p>

<p>“I believe so,” Markfield answered. “I saw her as I
came in.”</p>

<p>“I'd like to have a few words with her,” Sir Clinton
suggested.</p>

<p>“Officially?” Markfield demanded. “You're not
going to worry the girl, are you? If it's anything I can
tell you about, I'd be only too glad, you know. It's not
very nice for a girl to have the tale going round that
she's been hauled in by the police in a murder case.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable conceded the point without ado.</p>

<p>“Then perhaps you could send for her and we could
speak to her in here. It would be more private, and
there need be no talk about it outside.”</p>

<p>“Very well,” Markfield acquiesced at once. “I
think that would be better. I'll send for her now.”</p>

<p>He rang a bell and despatched a boy with a message.
In a few minutes a tap on the door sounded, and
Markfield ushered Norma Hailsham into the room. Inspector
Flamborough glanced at her with interest, to see how
far his conception of her personality agreed with the
reality. She was a girl apparently between twenty and
twenty-five, dressed with scrupulous neatness. Quite
obviously, she spent money freely on her clothes and
knew how to get value for what she spent. But as his
eyes travelled up to her face, the Inspector received a
more vivid impression. Her features were striking
rather than handsome, and Flamborough noted
especially the squarish chin and the long thin-lipped
flexible mouth.</p>

<p>“H'm!” he commented to himself. “She might
flash up in a moment, but with that jaw and those lips
she wouldn't cool down again in a hurry. I was right
when I put her down as a vindictive type. Shouldn't
much care to have trouble with her myself.”</p>

<p>He glanced at Sir Clinton for tacit instructions, but
apparently the Chief Constable proposed to take charge
of the interview.</p>

<p>“Would you sit down, Miss Hailsham,” Sir Clinton
suggested, drawing forward a chair for the girl.</p>

<p>Flamborough noticed with professional interest that
by his apparently casual courtesy, the Chief Constable
had unobtrusively manœuvred the girl into a position in
which her face was clearly illuminated by the light
from the window.</p>

<p>“This is Inspector Flamborough,” Sir Clinton went
on, with a gesture of introduction. “We should like to
ask you one or two questions about an awkward case
we have in our hands—the Hassendean business. I'm
afraid it will be painful for you; but I'm sure you'll
give us what help you can.”</p>

<p>Norma Hailsham's thin lips set in a hard line at his
first words, but the movement was apparently
involuntary, for she relaxed them again as Sir Clinton
finished his remarks.</p>

<p>“I shall be quite glad to give any help I can,” she
said in a level voice.</p>

<p>Flamborough, studying her expression, noticed a
swift shift of her glance from one to the other of the
three men before her.</p>

<p>“She's a bit over-selfconscious,” he judged privately.
“But she's the regular look-monger type, anyhow; and
quite likely she makes play with her eyes when she's
talking to any man.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be making a merit of
frankness:</p>

<p>“I really haven't any definite questions I want to ask
you, Miss Hailsham,” he confessed. “What we hoped
was that you might have something to tell us which
indirectly might throw some light on this affair. You
see, we come into it without knowing anything about
the people involved, and naturally any trifle may help
us. Now if I'm not mistaken, you knew Mr. Hassendean
fairly well?”</p>

<p>“I was engaged to him at one time. He broke off the
engagement for various reasons. That's common
knowledge, I believe.”</p>

<p>“Could you give us any of the reasons? I don't wish
to pry, you understand; but I think it's an important
point.”</p>

<p>Miss Hailsham's face showed that he had touched a
sore place.</p>

<p>“He threw me over for another woman—brutally.”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Silverdale?” Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“Yes, that creature.”</p>

<p>“Ah! Now I'd like to put a blunt question. Was your
engagement, while it lasted, a happy one? I mean, of
course, before he was attracted to Mrs. Silverdale.”</p>

<p>Norma Hailsham sat with knitted brows for a few
moments before answering.</p>

<p>“That's difficult to answer,” she pointed out at last.
“I must confess that I always felt he was thinking more
of himself than of me, and it was a disappointment. But,
you see, I was very keen on him; and that made a
difference, of course.”</p>

<p>“What led to the breaking of your engagement?”</p>

<p>“You mean what led up to it? Well, we were having
continual friction over Yvonne Silverdale. He was
neglecting me and spending his time with her.
Naturally, I spoke to him about it more than once. I wasn't
going to be slighted on account of that woman.”</p>

<p>There was no mistaking the under-current of animosity
in the girl's voice in the last sentence. Sir Clinton
ignored it.</p>

<p>“What were your ideas about the relations between
Mr. Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale?”</p>

<p>Miss Hailsham's thin lips curled in undisguised
contempt as she heard the question. She made a gesture as
though averting herself from something distasteful.</p>

<p>“It's hardly necessary to enter into <em>that</em>, is it?” she
demanded. “You can judge for yourself.”</p>

<p>But though she verbally evaded the point, the tone in
which she spoke was sufficient to betray her private
views on the subject. Then with intense bitterness
mingled with a certain malicious joy, she added:</p>

<p>“She got what she deserved in the end. I don't
pretend I'm sorry. I think they were both well served.”</p>

<p>Then her temper, which hitherto she had kept under
control, broke from restraint:</p>

<p>“I don't care who knows it! They deserved all they
got, both of them. What business had she—with a
husband of her own—to come and lure him away? She
made him break off his engagement to me simply to
gratify her own vanity. You don't expect me to shed
tears over them after that? One can forgive a good deal,
but there's no use making a pretence in things like that.
She hit me as hard as she could, and I'm glad she's got
her deserts. I warned him at the time that he wouldn't
come off so well as he thought; and he laughed in my
face when I said it. Well, it's my turn to laugh. The
account's even.”</p>

<p>And she actually did laugh, with a catch of hysteria
in the laughter. It needed no great skill in psychology
to see that wounded pride shared with disappointed
passion in causing this outbreak.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton checked the hysteria before it gained
complete hold over her.</p>

<p>“I'm afraid you haven't told us anything that was
new to us, Miss Hailsham,” he said, frigidly. “This
melodramatic business gets us no further forward.”</p>

<p>The girl looked at him with hard eyes.</p>

<p>“What help do you expect from me?” she
demanded. “I'm not anxious to see him avenged—far
from it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton evidently realised that nothing was to be
gained by pursuing that line of inquiry. Whether the
girl had any suspicions or not, she certainly did not
intend to supply information which might lead to the
capture of the murderer. The Chief Constable waited
until she had become calmer before putting his next
question:</p>

<p>“Do you happen to know anything about an alkaloid
called hyoscine, Miss Hailsham?”</p>

<p>“Hyoscine?” she repeated. “Yes, Avice Deepcar's
working on it just now. She's been at it for some time
under Dr. Silverdale's direction.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, glancing surreptitiously at Markfield,
noted an angry start which the chemist apparently
could not suppress. Put on the alert by this, the
Inspector reflected that Markfield himself must have had
this piece of information, and had refrained from
volunteering it.</p>

<p>“I meant as regards its properties,” Sir Clinton
interposed. “I'm not an expert in these things like you
chemical people.”</p>

<p>“I'm not an alkaloid expert,” Miss Hailsham
objected. “All I can remember about it is that it's used
in Twilight Sleep.”</p>

<p>“I believe it is, now that you mention it,” Sir Clinton
agreed, politely. “By the way, have you a car, Miss
Hailsham?”</p>

<p>“Yes. A Morris-Oxford four-seater.”</p>

<p>“A saloon?”</p>

<p>“No, a touring model. Why do you ask?”</p>

<p>“Someone's been asking for information about a car
which seems to have knocked a man over on the night
of the last fog. You weren't out that night, I suppose,
Miss Hailsham?”</p>

<p>“I was, as it happened. I went out to a dance. But
I'd a sore throat; and the fog made it worse; so I came
away very early and got home as best I could. But it
wasn't my car that knocked anyone down. I never had
an accident in my life.”</p>

<p>“You might have been excused in that fog, I think,
even if you had a collision. But evidently it's not your
car we're after. What was the number of the car we
heard about, Inspector?”</p>

<p>Flamborough consulted his notebook.</p>

<p>“GX.9074, sir.”</p>

<p>“Say that again,” Markfield demanded, pricking
up his ears.</p>

<p>“GX.9074 was the number.”</p>

<p>“That's the number of my car,” Markfield
volunteered.</p>

<p>He thought for some time, apparently trying to
retrace his experiences in the fog. At last his face lighted
up.</p>

<p>“Oh, I guess I know what it is. When I was piloting
Dr. Ringwood that night, a fellow nearly walked
straight into my front mudguard. I may have hurt his
feelings by what I said about his brains, but I swear I
didn't touch him with the car.”</p>

<p>“Not our affair,” Sir Clinton hastened to assure him.
“It's a matter for your insurance company if anything
comes of it. And I gathered from Dr. Ringwood that
you didn't exactly break records in your trip across
town, so I doubt if you need worry.”</p>

<p>“I shan't,” said Markfield, crossly. “You can refer
him to me if he comes to you again.”</p>

<p>“We'd nothing to do with the matter,” Sir Clinton
pointed out. “He was told he'd get the owner's address
from the County Council. I expect he got into a calmer
frame of mind when he'd had time to think.”</p>

<p>He turned to Miss Hailsham, who seemed to have
recovered complete control over herself during this
interlude.</p>

<p>“I think that's all we need worry you with, Miss
Hailsham. I'm sorry that we put you to so much
trouble.”</p>

<p>As a sign that the interview was at an end, he moved
over to open the door for her.</p>

<p>“I certainly don't wish you success,” she said icily,
as she left the room.</p>

<p>“Well, I think that's all we have to do here,
Inspector,” Sir Clinton said as he turned back from the
open door. “We mustn't take up any more of Dr.
Markfield's time. I don't want to hurry you too much,”
he added to Markfield, “but you'll let us have your
official report as soon as you can, won't you?”</p>

<p>Markfield promised with a nod, and the two officials
left the building. When they reached headquarters
again, Sir Clinton led the way to his own office.</p>

<p>“Sit down for a moment or two, Inspector,” he
invited. “You may as well glance over the London man's
report when you're about it. Here it is—not for actual
use, of course, until we get the official version from
him.”</p>

<p>He passed over a paper which Flamborough
unfolded.</p>

<p>“By the way, sir,” the Inspector inquired before
beginning to read, “is there any reason for keeping
back this information? These infernal reporters are all
over me for details; and if this poison affair could be
published without doing any harm, I might as well dole
it out to them to keep them quiet. They haven't had
much from me in the last twenty-four hours, and it's
better to give them what we can.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to attach some importance to this
matter, for he considered it for a few seconds before
replying.</p>

<p>“Let them have the name of the stuff,” he directed
at last. “I don't think I'd supply them with any details,
though. I'm quite satisfied about the name of the drug,
but the dose is still more or less a matter of opinion, and
we'd better not say anything about that.”</p>

<p>Flamborough glanced up from the report in his hand.</p>

<p>“Markfield and the London man both seem to put
the dose round about the same figure—eight
milligrammes,” he said.</p>

<p>“Both of them must be super-sharp workers,” Sir
Clinton pointed out. “I don't profess to be a chemist,
Inspector, but I know enough about things to realise
that they've done a bit of a feat there. However, let's
get on to something more immediately interesting.
What did you make of the Hailsham girl?”</p>

<p>“What did I make of her?” Flamborough repeated,
in order to gain a little time. “I thought she was more
or less what I'd expected her to be, sir. A hard vixen
with a good opinion of herself—and simply mad with
rage at being jilted: that's what I made of her.
Revengeful, too. And a bit vulgar, sir. No decent girl
would talk like that about a dead man to a set of
strangers.”</p>

<p>“She hadn't much to tell us that was useful,” Sir
Clinton said, keeping to the main point. “And I quite
agree with you as to the general tone.”</p>

<p>Flamborough turned to a matter which had puzzled
him during their visit to the Institute:</p>

<p>“What did you want young Hassendean's notebook
for, sir? I didn't quite make that out.”</p>

<p>“Why, you saw what I got out of it: arithmetical
errors which proved conclusively that he was a careless
worker who didn't take any trouble at all to verify his
results.”</p>

<p>“I had a kind of notion that you got more out of it
than that, sir, or you wouldn't have asked to see
Markfield's notebook as well. It doesn't take someone
else's notebook to spot slips in a man's arithmetic,
surely.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton gazed blandly at his subordinate:</p>

<p>“Now that you've got that length, it would be a pity
to spoil your pleasure in the rest of the inference. Just
think it out and tell me the result, to see if we both
reach the same conclusion independently. You'll find
a weights-and-measures conversion table useful.”</p>

<p>“Conversion table, sir?” asked the Inspector,
evidently quite at sea.</p>

<p>“Yes. ‘One metre equals 39·37 inches,’ and all that
sort of thing. The sort of stuff one used at school, you
know.”</p>

<p>“Too deep for me, sir,” the Inspector acknowledged
ruefully. “You'll need to tell me the answer. And that
reminds me, what made you ask whether the dose could
have been fifteen times the maximum?”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable was just about to take pity on
his subordinate when the desk-telephone rang sharply.
Sir Clinton picked up the receiver.</p>

<p>“. . . Yes. Inspector Flamborough is here.”</p>

<p>He handed the receiver across to the Inspector, who
conducted a disjointed conversation with the person at
the other end of the wire. At length Flamborough put
down the instrument and turned to Sir Clinton with
an expression of satisfaction on his face.</p>

<p>“We're on to something, sir. That was Fossaway
ringing up from Fountain Street. It seems a man called
there a few minutes ago and began fishing round to
know if there was any likelihood of a reward being
offered in connection with the bungalow case. He
seemed as if he might know something, and they handed
him over to Detective-Sergeant Fossaway to see what
he could make of him. Fossaway's fairly satisfied that
there's something behind it, though he could extract
nothing whatever from the fellow in the way of definite
statements.”</p>

<p>“Has Fossaway got him there still?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. He'd no power to detain him, of course;
and the fellow turned stubborn in the end and went off
without saying anything definite.”</p>

<p>“I hope they haven't lost him.”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir. They know him quite well.”</p>

<p>“What sort of person is he, then?”</p>

<p>“A nasty type, sir. He keeps one of these little
low-down shops where you can buy a lot of queer things.
Once we nearly had him over the sale of some postcards,
but he was too clever for us at the last moment.
Then he was up in an assault case: he'd been
wandering round the Park after dark, disturbing
couples with a flash-lamp. A thoroughly low-down
little creature. His name's Whalley.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face showed very plainly his view of
the activities of Mr. Whalley.</p>

<p>“Well, so long as they can lay their hands on him
any time we need him, it's all right. I think we'll
persuade him to talk. By the way, was this lamp-flashing
stunt of his done for æsthetic enjoyment, or was he doing
a bit of blackmailing on the quiet?”</p>

<p>“Well, nobody actually lodged a complaint against
him; but there's no saying whether people paid him
or not. His record doesn't make it improbable that he
might do something in that line, if he could manage to
pull it off.”</p>

<p>“Then I'll leave Mr. Whalley to your care, Inspector.
He sounds interesting, if you can induce him to squeak.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XI. <br/> The Code Advertisement</h2>

<p>On the following morning, Inspector Flamborough
was summoned to the Chief Constable's room and, on
his arrival, was somewhat surprised to find his superior
poring over a copy of the <i>Westerhaven Courier</i>. It was not
Sir Clinton's habit to read newspapers during office
hours; and the Inspector's eyebrows lifted slightly at
the unwonted spectacle.</p>

<p>“Here's a little puzzle for you, Inspector,” Sir
Clinton greeted him as he came in. “Just have a look at it.”</p>

<p>He folded the newspaper to a convenient size and
handed it over, pointing as he did so to an
advertisement to which attention had been drawn by a couple
of crosses in pen and ink. Flamborough took the paper
and scanned the advertisement:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    DRIFFIELD. AAACC. CCCDE. EEEEF. <br/>
    HHHHH. IIIIJ. NNNNO. OOOOO. <br/>
    RRSSS. SSTTT. TTTTT. TTUUW. Y.
</div></blockquote>

<p>“It doesn't seem exactly lucid, sir,” he confessed, as
he read it a second time. “A lot of letters in
alphabetical order and divided into groups of five—bar the
single letter at the end. I suppose it was your name at
the front that attracted your eye?”</p>

<p>“No,” Sir Clinton answered. “This copy of the
paper came to me through the post, marked as you see
it. It came in by the second delivery. Here's the
wrapper. It'll probably suggest something to you.”</p>

<p>Flamborough looked at it carefully.</p>

<p>“Ordinary official stamped wrapper. There's no
clue there, since you can buy 'em by the hundred
anywhere.”</p>

<p>Then a glance at the address enlightened him.</p>

<p>“Same old game, sir? Letters clipped from
telegraph forms and gummed on to the wrapper. It looks
like Mr. Justice again.”</p>

<p>“The chances are in favour of it,” Sir Clinton agreed,
with a faint tinge of mockery in his voice at the
Inspector's eager recognition of the obvious. “Well, what
about it?”</p>

<p>Flamborough scanned the advertisement once
more, but no sign of comprehension lightened his
face.</p>

<p>“Let's clear up one point before we tackle the
lettering,” Sir Clinton suggested. “That's to-day's issue
of the <i>Courier</i>; so this advertisement was received at the
newspaper office yesterday. Since the thing reached me
by the second post, this copy of the paper may have
been bought in the normal way—first thing in the
morning—and posted at once.”</p>

<p>“That's sound, sir. It's among the ordinary
advertisements—not in the ‘Too Late For Classification’
section.”</p>

<p>“It may be a hoax, of course,” Sir Clinton mused,
“but the telegram-form business would hardly occur
to a practical joker. I think one can take it as a genuine
contribution until it's proved to be a fake. Now what
do you make of it?”</p>

<p>The Inspector shook his head.</p>

<p>“Cyphers are not my long suit, sir. Frankly, it seems
to me just a jumble, and I don't think I'd make it
anything else if I tried.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton reflected for a minute or two in silence,
his eyes fixed on the advertisement.</p>

<p>“I've a notion that this is only Chapter I, Inspector.
There's more to come, in all probability. If it's Mr.
Justice, he's not the man to waste time. By the way,
did you give the reporters the information you were
talking about yesterday?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. It was printed in last night's <i>Evening
Herald</i>, and I think both the <i>Courier</i> and the <i>Gazette</i> have
got it this morning.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was still scrutinising the advertisement.</p>

<p>“I'm like you, Inspector—no great shakes on cyphers.
But this affair looks to me more like the letters
of a plain message arranged in ordinary alphabetical
order. I think that most likely we shall get the key from
the writer in some form or other before long. In the
meantime, though, we might have a dash at
interpreting the affair, if we can.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's face showed that he thought very
poorly of the chances of success.</p>

<p>“Ever read Jules Verne or Poe?” Sir Clinton
demanded. “No? Well, Poe has an essay on cryptography
in its earlier stages—nothing like the stuff you'll find
in Gross or Reiss, of course, and mere child's play
compared with the special manuals on the subject. But he
pointed out that in cypher-solving you have to pick the
lock instead of using the normal key. And Jules Verne
puts his finger on the signature of a cypher-communication
as a weak point, if you've any idea who the sender
is. That's assuming, of course, that there is a signature
at all to the thing.”</p>

<p>The Inspector nodded his comprehension of this.</p>

<p>“You mean, sir, that ‘Justice’ would be the
signature here, like in the wire we got?”</p>

<p>“We can but try,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Not that
I'm over-hopeful. Still, it's worth a shot. Suppose we
hook out the letters of ‘Justice’ and see what that
leaves us. And we may as well disregard the groups of
five for the moment and simply collect the remaining
letters under A, B, C, etc.”</p>

<p>He tore a sheet of paper into small squares and
inscribed one letter of the message on each square.</p>

<p>“Now we take out ‘Justice,’ ” he said, suiting the
action to the word, “and simply leave the rest in
alphabetical groups.”</p>

<p>The Inspector, following the operation, found
himself faced with the arrangement:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    AAA CCCC D EEEE F HHHHH III NNNN <br/>
    OOOOOO RR SSSS TTTTTTTTT U W Y
    <p class="sig">JUSTICE.</p>
</div></blockquote>

<p>“It doesn't seem much clearer, sir,” Flamborough
pointed out with a certain tinge of enjoyment in his
tone. It was not often that he had a chance of crowing
over his superior.</p>

<p>“Wait a moment, Inspector. Just let's reflect for a
bit. At any rate, the letters of ‘Justice’ are there; and
that's always better than a complete blank end. Now
consider what Mr. Justice might be burning to tell us
about in his unobtrusive way. He had time to see the
news printed in last night's <i>Herald</i> before he composed
this little affair. Let's suppose that he got some fresh
ideas from that—since this communication falls pat
after the publication and he hasn't bothered us for days
before that. The crucial thing was the identification of
the hyoscine. We'll see if we can get the word out
here.”</p>

<p>He sifted out the letters rapidly; and the jumble then
took the form:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    HYOSCINE AAA CCC D EEE F HHHH II <br/>
    NNN OOOOO RR SSS TTTTTTTTT U W <br/>
    <p class="sig">JUSTICE.</p>
</div></blockquote>

<p>“It fits, so far,” Sir Clinton said, surveying his
handiwork doubtfully, “but we might have got a couple of
words like that out of a random jumble of fifty-six letters.
It's encouraging, but far from convincing, I admit.”</p>

<p>He glanced over the arrangement with knitted brows.</p>

<p>“There seem to be a devil of a lot of T's in the thing,
if we're on the right track. Now what do you associate
with hyoscine in your mind, Inspector? Quick, now!
Don't stop to think.”</p>

<p>“The Croft-Thornton Institute,” said the inspector,
promptly.</p>

<p>“Bull's eye, I believe,” the Chief Constable
ejaculated. “You could hardly jam more T's together in
English than there are in these three words. Let's sift
'em out.”</p>

<p>The Inspector bent eagerly forward to see if the
necessary letters could be found. Sir Clinton separated the
ones which he required for the three words, and the
arrangement stood thus:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    HYOSCINE THE CROFT-THORNTON <br/>
    INSTITUTE AAA CC D E HH OO SS TT W <br/>
    <p class="sig">JUSTICE.</p>
</div></blockquote>

<p>“I think this is getting outside the bounds of mere
chance,” Sir Clinton adjudged, with more optimism
in his tone. “Now we might go a step further without
straining things, even if it's only a short pace. Let's
make a guess. Suppose that it's meant to read:
“Hyoscine <em>at</em> the Croft-Thornton Institute.” That leaves us
with the jumble here:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    AA CC D E HH OO SS T W
</div></blockquote>

<p>“What do you make of that, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“The start of it looks like ACCEDE—no, there's only
one E,” Flamborough began, only to correct himself.</p>

<p>“It's not ACCEDE, obviously, Let's try ACCESS
and see if that's any use.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable shifted the letters while the
Inspector, now thoroughly interested, watched for the
result.</p>

<p>“If it's ACCESS then it ought to be ACCESS TO,”
Sir Clinton suggested. “And that leaves A, D, HH,
O, W.”</p>

<p>One glance at the six letters satisfied him.</p>

<p>“It's panned out correctly, Inspector. There isn't a
letter over. See!”</p>

<p>He rearranged the lettering, and the inspector read
the complete message:</p>

<blockquote class="advertisement"><div>
    <p>WHO HAD ACCESS TO HYOSCINE AT THE
    CROFT-THORNTON INSTITUTE. JUSTICE.</p>
</div></blockquote>

<p>“The chances of an anagram working out so sensibly
as that are pretty small,” Sir Clinton said, with
satisfaction. “It's a few million to one that we've got the
correct version. H'm! I don't know that Mr. Justice
has really given us much help this time, for the
Croft-Thornton was an obvious source of the drug. Still, he's
doing his best, evidently; and he doesn't mean to let
us overlook even the obvious, this time. I'm prepared
to bet that we get the key to this thing by the next post.
Mr. Justice wouldn't leave the matter to the mere
chance of our working the thing out. Still it's some
satisfaction to feel that we've done without his assistance.”</p>

<p>Flamborough occupied himself with copying the
cypher and its solution into his notebook. When he
had finished, Sir Clinton lit a cigarette and handed his
case to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Let's put officialism aside for a few minutes,”
the Chief Constable proposed. “No notes, or anything
of that sort. Now I don't mind confessing, Inspector,
that we aren't getting on with this business at all well.
Short of divination, there seems no way of discovering
the truth, so far as present information goes. And we
simply can't afford to let this affair go unsolved. Your
Whalley person seems to be our best hope.”</p>

<p>The Inspector evidently found a fresh train of thought
started in his mind by Sir Clinton's lament.</p>

<p>“I've been thinking over that set of alternatives you
put down on paper the other day, sir,” he explained.
“I think they ought to be reduced from nine to six. It's
practically out of the question that young Hassendean
was shot twice over by pure accident; so it seems
reasonable enough to eliminate all that class from
your table.”</p>

<p>He put his hand in his pocket and produced a sheet
of paper which had evidently been folded and unfolded
fairly often since it had been first written upon.</p>

<p>“If you reject accident as a possibility in Hassendean's
case,” he continued, “then you bring the thing
within these limits here.”</p>

<p>He put his paper down on the table and Sir Clinton
read the following:</p>

<table class="solutions">
<tbody><tr>
<th class="left">Hassendean</th><th class="right">Mrs. Silverdale</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>A—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Suicide</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>B—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>C—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>D—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>E—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>F—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Suicide</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>“Now I think it's possible to eliminate even further
than that, sir, for this reason. There's a third death—the
maid's at Heatherfield—which on the face of it is
connected in some way with these others. I don't see
how you can cut the Heatherfield business away from
the other two.”</p>

<p>“I'm with you there, Inspector,” Sir Clinton assured
him.</p>

<p>Flamborough, obviously relieved to find that he was
not going to be attacked in the flank, pursued his
exposition with more confidence.</p>

<p>“Who killed the maid? That's an important point.
It wasn't young Hassendean, because the maid was
seen alive by Dr. Ringwood immediately after young
Hassendean had died on his hands. It certainly wasn't
Mrs. Silverdale, because everything points to her
having died even before young Hassendean left the
bungalow to go home and die at Ivy Lodge. Therefore,
there was somebody afoot in the business that night
who wouldn't stick at murder to gain his ends,
whatever they were.”</p>

<p>“Nobody's going to quarrel with that, Inspector.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” Flamborough continued. “Now,
with that factor at the back of one's mind, one might
review these six remaining cases in the light of what
we do know.”</p>

<p>“Go ahead,” Sir Clinton urged him, covertly
amused to find the Inspector so completely converted
to the method which at first he had decried.</p>

<p>“Case A, then,” Flamborough began. “A double
suicide. Now I don't cotton much to that notion, for
this reason. If it was suicide, then one or other of them
must have had possession of hyoscine in quantity
sufficient to kill both of them. So I judge from the
quantity found in her body. Now no hyoscine was in
young Hassendean's system. His eyes were quite normal
and there was no trace of the stuff in the stomach, as
they found when they sent to your London friend on
the question. From what I've seen of young
Hassendean's diary, and from what we've picked up about
him from various sources, he wasn't the sort of
person to go in for needless pain. If he'd shot himself at all,
it would have been in the head. And if he'd had
hyoscine at hand, he wouldn't have shot himself at all.
He'd have swallowed a dose of the poison instead, and
gone out painlessly.”</p>

<p>“Correct inference, I believe,” Sir Clinton
confirmed. “I don't say it's certain, of course.”</p>

<p>“Well, then, what holds in Case A, ought to hold
also in the other two cases—C and E—where it's also a
question of young Hassendean's suicide. So one can
score them off as well.”</p>

<p>“Not so fast,” Sir Clinton interrupted. “I don't
say you're wrong; but your assumption doesn't cover
the cases. In Case A you assumed that Mrs. Silverdale
committed suicide—ergo, she had hyoscine in her
possession. But in Case C, the assumption is that she
died by accidental poisoning; and before you can
eliminate suicide on young Hassendean's part, you've
got to prove that he had the hyoscine in his possession.
I'm not saying that he hadn't. I'm merely keeping you
strictly to your logic.”</p>

<p>Flamborough considered this for a few moments.</p>

<p>“Strictly speaking, I suppose you're right, sir. And
in Case E, I'd have to prove that he poisoned her
wilfully, in order to cover the case of his having hyoscine
in his possession. H'm!”</p>

<p>After a pause, he took up the table afresh.</p>

<p>“Let's go back to Case B, then: a double murder.
That brings in this third party—the person who did for
the maid at Heatherfield, we'll say; and the fellow
who broke the window. There were signs of a struggle
in that room at the bungalow, you remember. Now it
seems to me that Case B piles things on too thick, if you
understand what I mean. It means that Mrs. Silverdale
was murdered by poison and that young Hassendean
was shot to death. Why the two methods when plain
shooting would have been good enough in both cases?
Take the obvious case—it's been at the back of my
mind, and I'm sure it's been at the back of yours too,
that Silverdale surprised the two of them at the
bungalow and killed them both. Where does the poison come
in? To my mind we ought to put a pencil through Case
B. It's most improbable.”</p>

<p>Rather to his relief, Sir Clinton made no objection.
The Inspector drew his pencil through the first two
lines of the table, then let it hover over the last line.</p>

<p>“What about Case F, sir? She suicided and he was
murdered. If she suicided, it was a premeditated
affair—otherwise they wouldn't have had the hyoscine at
hand. But if it was one of these lovers’ suicide-pacts,
they'd have had a dose ready for him as well—and
there wasn't a trace of the stuff spilt on the floor or
anywhere about the bungalow. Score out Case F, sir?”</p>

<p>“I've no objections to your putting your pencil
through it if you like, Inspector, though my reasons are
rather different from the ones you give.”</p>

<p>Flamborough looked up suspiciously, but gathered
from Sir Clinton's face that there was nothing further
to be expected.</p>

<p>“Well, at least that's narrowed down the possibilities
a bit,” he said with relief. “You started out with nine
possible solutions to the affair—covering every
conceivable combination. Now we're down to three.”</p>

<p>He picked up his paper and read out the residual
scheme, putting fresh identifying letters to the three
cases:</p>

<table class="solutions">
<tbody><tr>
<th class="left">Hassendean</th><th class="right">Mrs. Silverdale</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>X—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>Y—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>Z—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Murder</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>“You agree to that, sir?” Flamborough demanded.</p>

<p>“Oh, yes!” Sir Clinton admitted, in a careless tone.
“I think the truth probably lies somewhere among
those three solutions. The bother will be to prove it.”</p>

<p>At this moment a constable entered the room,
bringing some letters and a newspaper in a postal wrapper.</p>

<p>“Come by the next post, as I expected,” the Chief
Constable remarked, picking up the packet and
removing the wrapper with care. “The usual method of
addressing, you see: letters cut from telegraph forms
and gummed on to the official stamped wrapper. Well,
let's have a look at the news.”</p>

<p>He unfolded the sheet and glanced over the
advertisement pages in search of a marked paragraph.</p>

<p>“Ingenious devil, Inspector,” he went on. “The
other advertisement was in the <i>Courier</i>, this is a copy of
to-day's <i>Gazette</i>. That makes sure that no one reading
down a column of advertisements would be struck by a
resemblance and start comparisons. I begin to like
Mr. Justice. He's thorough, anyhow. . . . Ah, here we
are! Marked like the other one. Listen, Inspector:</p>

<blockquote class="message"><div>
  
  <p>“CLINTON: Take the letters in the following
  order.</p>
  <p>55. 16. 30. 17. 1. 9. 2. 4. 5. 10. 38. 39. 43. 31.</p>
  <p>18. 56. 32. 40. 6. 21. 26. 11. 3. 44. 45. 19. 12. 7.</p>
  <p>36. 33. 15. 46. 47. 20. 34. 37. 27. 48. 35. 28. 22.</p>
  <p>29. 41. 49. 23. 50. 53. 51. 13. 25. 54. 42. 52.</p>
  <p>24. 8. 14.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Now that was why he split up his letters into groups of
five in the first advertisement—to make it easy for us
to count. I really like this fellow more and more. A most
thoughtful cove.”</p>

<p>He placed the two advertisements side by side on the
table.</p>

<p>“Just run over this with me, Inspector. Call the first
A number 1, the second A number 2, and so on. There
are fifty-six letters in all, so number 55 is the W.
Number 16 is the first letter in the fourth quintette—H.
Number 30 is the last letter in the sixth quintette—O.
So that spells WHO. Just go through the lot and check
them please.”</p>

<p>Flamborough ploughed through the whole series and
ended with the same solution as Sir Clinton had
obtained earlier in the morning: “WHO HAD
ACCESS TO HYOSCINE AT THE CROFT-THORNTON
INSTITUTE?”</p>

<p>“Well, it's pleasant to hit the mark,” the Chief
Constable confessed. “By the way, you had better send
someone down to the <i>Courier</i> and <i>Gazette</i> Offices to pick
up the originals of these advertisements. But I'm sure
it'll be just the same old telegram stunt; and the address
which has to be given as a guarantee of good faith will
be a fake one.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XII. <br/> The Silverdale Wills</h2>

<p>“This is Mr. Renard, sir.”</p>

<p>Flamborough held open the door of Sir Clinton's
office and ushered in the little Frenchman. The Chief
Constable glanced up at the interruptors.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Silverdale's brother, isn't it?” he asked
courteously.</p>

<p>Renard nodded vigorously, and turned toward the
Inspector, as though leaving explanations to him.
Flamborough threw himself into the breach:</p>

<p>“It appears, sir, that Mr. Renard isn't entirely
satisfied with the state of things he's unearthed in the
matter of his sister's will. It's taken him by surprise;
and he came to see what I thought about it. He'd prefer
to lay the point before you, so I've brought him along.
It seems just as well that you should hear it at
first-hand, for it looks as though it might be important.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton closed his fountain pen and invited
Renard to take a seat.</p>

<p>“I'm at your disposal, Mr. Renard,” he said
briskly. “Let's hear the whole story, if you please,
whatever it is. Inspector Flamborough will make notes, if
you don't mind.”</p>

<p>Renard took the chair which Sir Clinton indicated.</p>

<p>“I shall be concise,” he assured the Chief Constable.
“It is not a very complicated affair, but I should like to
have it thrashed out, as you English say.”</p>

<p>He settled himself at ease and then plunged into his
tale.</p>

<p>“My sister, Yvonne Renard, as you know, married
Mr. Silverdale in 1923. I was not altogether pleased
with the alliance, not quite satisfied, you understand?
Oh, there was nothing against Mr. Silverdale! But I
knew my sister, and Silverdale was not the right man
for her: he was too serious, too intent on his profession.
He had not the natural gaiety which was needed in a
husband for Yvonne. Already I was in doubt, at the
very moment of the marriage. There were
incompatibilities, you understand. . . . ?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's gesture assured him that he had made
himself sufficiently clear.</p>

<p>“I have nothing to say against my brother-in-law,
you follow me?” Renard went on. “It was a case of
‘Marry in haste and repent at leisure,’ as your English
proverb says. They were unsuited to each other, but
that was no fault of theirs. When they discovered each
other—their real selves—it is clear that they decided
to make the best of it. I had nothing to say. I was sorry
that my sister had not found a husband more suited to
her temperament; but I am not one who would make
trouble by sympathising too much.”</p>

<p>“I quite understand, Mr. Renard,” Sir Clinton
intervened, with the obvious intention of cutting short
this elaborate exposition of the self-evident.</p>

<p>“Now I come to the important point,” Renard went
on. “At the time of the marriage, or shortly afterwards—I
do not know your English law about testaments
very well—my brother-in-law transferred part of his
property in stocks and shares to my sister. It was some
question of Death Duties, I was told. If he died first,
then she would have had to pay on his whole estate;
but by transferring some of his property to her, this
could be avoided. In case of his death, she would have
to pay only on what he had retained in his own name.
It is, I understand, a usual precaution in the
circumstances.”</p>

<p>“It's often done,” Sir Clinton confirmed. “By the
way, Mr. Renard, can you give me some idea of how
much he transferred to her on their marriage?”</p>

<p>“I cannot give you the precise figures,” Renard
explained. “I have seen the lawyer's accounts, of
course; but they were involved, and I have no good
memory for figures. It was only a few hundred
pounds—a mere drop in the bucket, as you would say in
English. My brother-in-law is not a rich man, not by
any means. But the sum itself is of little importance.
It is the sequel which is of more interest, as you
shall see.”</p>

<p>He leaned forward in his chair as though to fix Sir
Clinton's attention.</p>

<p>“When my brother-in-law transferred this little
property to my sister, they each made their testament.
That, I believe, was on the advice of a lawyer. By his will,
my brother-in-law left all his property to my sister. He
had no relations, so far as I have learned; and that
seemed very fair. The second will, my sister's, was in
identical terms, so far as the principal clauses went. All
her property in stocks, shares, and money, went to my
brother-in-law. There was a little provision at the end
which left to me a few small souvenirs, things of
sentimental value only. It seemed very fair in the
circumstances. I suggest nothing wrong. How could there be
anything wrong?”</p>

<p>“It seems a normal precaution in the circumstances,”
Sir Clinton assured him. “Naturally, if she died first,
he would expect to get his own property back again—less
the Death Duties, of course.”</p>

<p>“It was a very small affair,” Renard emphasised.
“If I had been consulted, I should certainly have
advised it. But I was not consulted. It was no business of
mine, except that I was made a trustee. I am not one
who mixes himself up with affairs which do not concern
him.”</p>

<p>“Where is this leading to, Mr. Renard?” Sir Clinton
asked patiently. “I don't see your difficulty as yet, I
must confess.”</p>

<p>“There is no difficulty. It is merely that I wish to lay
some further information before you. Now, I proceed.
My aunt had been ill for a long time. A disease of the
heart, it was: angina pectoris. She was bound to die in
a spasm, at a moment's notice. One expected it, you
understand? And less than three weeks ago, she had
the spasm which we had so long anticipated, and she
died.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face expressed his sympathy, but he
made no attempt to interrupt.</p>

<p>“As I told Inspector Flamborough when I saw him
last,” Renard continued, “the figure of her fortune
came as a surprise to me. I had no idea she was so rich.
She lived very simply, very parsimoniously, even. I had
always thought of her as hard-up, you understand?
Figure to yourself my astonishment when I learned that
she had accumulated over £12,000! That is a great
sum. Many people would do almost anything to acquire
£12,000.”</p>

<p>He paused for a moment as though in rapt
contemplation of the figures.</p>

<p>“Her testament was very simple,” he proceeded.
“My sister Yvonne was her favourite. My aunt had
always put her in front of me. I make no complaint, you
understand? Someone must be preferred. I had a little
bequest under my aunt's testament; but Yvonne
secured almost the whole of my aunt's fortune. That was
how things stood a fortnight ago.”</p>

<p>He hitched himself in his chair as though preparing
for a revelation.</p>

<p>“My sister and I were the trustees under my aunt's
testament. The lawyer who had charge of the will
communicated with me and forwarded a copy of the
document. These legal documents are not easy to
understand. But I soon saw that my sister had acquired the
whole of my aunt's capital in stocks and shares—about
a million and a half francs. I am not very good at legal
affairs. It took me some time to understand what all
this meant; but I thought it out. It is really quite
simple, very easy. My sister had gained £12,000 under
my aunt's will; but if she died without any change in
the circumstances, then under the will which she signed
after her marriage, my brother-in-law would inherit
the whole of that money. Figure to yourself, he had
never even seen my aunt, and all that £12,000 would
pour into his lap. And I, who had been almost like a
son to my aunt, I would get nothing! I make no
complaint, of course.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face betrayed nothing whatever of his
views on the question. He merely waited in silence for
Renard to continued his story.</p>

<p>“When I understood the position,” Renard resumed,
“I sat down and wrote a letter to my sister. ‘Here is
the state of affairs,’ I said. ‘Our good aunt is dead,
and she has named you as her heiress. A whole million
and a half francs! To me she has left some little things,
enough at least to buy a suit of mourning. I have no
complaints to make: our good aunt had the right to
dispose of her money as she chose.’ That was how I
began, you understand? Then I went on thus: ‘Things
are for the best for the present,’ I said, ‘but one must
think of the future as well. Recall the will which you
made at the time of your marriage. All is to go to your
husband, should anything happen to you. Now,’ I
wrote, ‘that seems to me hardly as it should be. If you
should die—a motor accident might happen any day—then
all the money of our aunt would pass into the
hands of your husband, this husband with whom you
have so little in common and who had no relations
with our good aunt. And I, who am your nearest in
kin, would receive not one penny. Think of that,’ I
wrote, ‘and consider whether it would be fair. Is the
fortune of our family to pass into the hands of strangers
and we ourselves to be left without a share in it?’ ”</p>

<p>Renard looked from the Inspector to Sir Clinton and
back to the Inspector, as though seeking for sympathy.
Apparently finding nothing very satisfying in their
expressions, he continued his tale.</p>

<p>“I put it to her that this state of affairs was not as it
should be. I did not plead for myself, of course. That
is not my way. I tried to show her that as things stood,
injustice would be done if she should happen to die.
And I urged her very strongly to make a fresh will.
‘See,’ I wrote, ‘how things would fall out. To you, it
would mean nothing, very naturally. You would be far
beyond all cares. But this money would be left. Would
you desire that it should fall into the hands of this
husband of yours, with whom you cannot find anything
in common? Or would you not prefer that it should
be left to your brother who has always been good to
you?’ That is how I put it to her. I asked her to take
swift action and to call in a lawyer who could aid her
to draw up a fresh will which would be fair to both her
husband and myself. I desired to be fair, you understand?
merely to be fair. He would have received back
his own stocks and shares which he had given to her at
the time of their marriage. I would have gained the
fortune which descended from my aunt. That seemed
reasonable, surely.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” Sir Clinton confirmed, “it sounds quite
reasonable in the circumstances. And what
happened?”</p>

<p>“I have been to see the lawyers,” Renard went on.
“Figure to yourself what I discovered. My poor Yvonne
was not a woman of affairs. She had no business-like
habits. If a thing seemed likely to give her trouble, she
would put it aside for as long as she could, before
dealing with it. Affairs bored her. It was her
temperament, like that. So when she received my letter, she
put it aside for some days. One cannot blame her. It
was not in her nature to go to great trouble over a thing
like that. Besides, death was not in her thoughts. One
day was as good as another.”</p>

<p>He paused, as though wishing to heighten the interest
of his narrative; for it was evident that he had produced
but little impression on Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“She had a good heart, my poor sister. She
understood the position well enough, it seems. And she had
no wish to see her good brother left out in the cold, as
you English put it. But she delayed and delayed in the
affair. And in the end she delayed too long.”</p>

<p>Again he hitched himself forward in his chair, as
though he were approaching something important.</p>

<p>“I went to the lawyers. What did I find? This. My
poor Yvonne had not forgotten her good brother. She
had the intention of setting things right. One day she
rang up the lawyers on the telephone and made an
appointment with them for the following afternoon.
She informed them that she proposed to alter her will;
but of course, over the telephone, she said nothing
about her wishes on the point. That is to be
understood. But she said she would jot down the points to
be embodied in the new will and bring that paper with
her. That is all the lawyers know. That is all I know
myself. For before the next afternoon, when she had
made her appointment with the lawyers—my poor
Yvonne was dead! Is it not distressing? Twelve
thousand pounds! A million and a half francs! And they
slip through my fingers just by a few hours. But I make
no complaint, of course. I do not grumble. It is not
my way. These things happen, and one has to bear
them.”</p>

<p>If he had expected to read any sympathy in Sir
Clinton's face, he must have been disappointed. The
Chief Constable betrayed nothing of the feelings in his
mind.</p>

<p>“Was it not most inopportune?” Renard continued.
“Or most opportune indeed, for Silverdale, that things
fell out as they have done. A coincidence, of course.
Life is full of these things. I have seen too many to be
astonished, myself. But is it not most apt that she should
die just at that juncture? Another day of life, and the
twelve thousand pounds goes into one pocket; a death,
and the money falls into other hands. I am something
of a philosopher. One has to be, in this world. And
these strange chances have an attraction for my mind.
I know there is nothing behind them, nothing
whatever, you understand? And yet, is it not most striking
that things fall out as they do?”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable declined to be drawn into a
general discussion on the Universe.</p>

<p>“I am afraid it is scarcely a matter for the police,
Mr. Renard. Wills hardly fall into our province, you
know, unless a case of forgery turns up; and in this
case there's nothing of that sort. The only advice I
could give you would be to consult a lawyer, but as
you've already had the legal position made clear, I
don't see that there's anything to be done.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough took his cue and, without
more ado he hinted to Renard very plainly that enough
time had been spent on the matter. At length the
little Frenchman withdrew, leaving the two officials
together.</p>

<p>“I don't much care for his way of telling his story,
sir,” Flamborough remarked, “but I'm not sure, if I
were in his shoes, that I wouldn't feel much the same
as he seems to do. It must be a bit galling to lose
£12,000 by a few hours’ delay. And he's quite
reasonably suspicious, evidently.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused to be drawn.</p>

<p>“Don't let's be too much influenced by the stop press
news, Inspector. Renard's evidence is the latest we
have; but that adds nothing to its value, remember.
Look at the case as a whole and try to reckon up the
people who could conceivably gain anything by the
crime. Then you can assess the probabilities in each
case—apart altogether from the order in which the facts
have come to light.”</p>

<p>The Inspector had evidently considered the matter
already from this stand-point. He hardly paused before
offering his views.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, if you ask me, Silverdale had at least two
sound motives for committing murder. By getting his
wife out of the way, he opened the road to a marriage
with the Deepcar girl, whom he's obviously keen on.
Also, if Renard's story's true, the death of his wife at
that particular juncture put £12,000 into his pocket,
which he'd have lost if Mrs. Silverdale had lived a day
or two longer.”</p>

<p>“One has to admit that he hadn't evidence to get a
divorce, which would have been an obvious alternative
to murder,” Sir Clinton acknowledged. “And the cash
affair makes the death of Mrs. Silverdale peculiarly
opportune. It's no use burking the plain fact that either
money or a woman might tempt a man to murder;
and when you've got both of them together, one can't
brush them aside cavalierly. But go on with your list,
Inspector.”</p>

<p>“There's that money-lender, Spratton,”
Flamborough pursued. “If young Hassendean's death
can be proved to be a murder, then Spratton lifts
some thousands out of the pocket of the insurance
company in return for the payment of a single premium.
That's a motive, certainly.”</p>

<p>“It's a sound motive for <em>proving</em> that it was a case of
murder and not suicide; and it's a possible motive for
murder, I admit. But the position of a gentleman who
commits a murder for gain and can only collect the
money by proving that murder was done . . . Well, it
sounds a bit complicated, doesn't it?”</p>

<p>“Unless he can be sure of fixing the murder on
someone else, sir.”</p>

<p>“It's a bit difficult in practice to produce a
frame-up of that description, isn't it?”</p>

<p>The Inspector refrained from betraying any opinion
on this point.</p>

<p>“Then there's the Hailsham girl, sir. She's a
vindictive type; and she quite obviously had the worst
kind of grudge against both of them. Revenge might
have been at the back of the business for all one can
tell. I don't say it's likely; but I'm considering
possibilities, not necessarily probabilities.”</p>

<p>“I don't think Miss Hailsham can reckon me among
her admirers,” Sir Clinton confessed. “But that's
hardly evidence against her in a murder case. We'd
need something a bit more concrete.”</p>

<p>“She admitted that she left the dance early that
night and took her car home, sir. She hasn't got
a clean alibi for the time the murder was
committed.”</p>

<p>“So I noticed when she told her story. But the
absence of an alibi doesn't establish murderous intent,
you know. Go ahead.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, there's the Deepcar girl. She's keen on
Silverdale. It's always a motive.”</p>

<p>“Save me from being mixed up in any murder case
that you have charge of, Inspector. My character
wouldn't escape, I see. You'll need to have
something better than that before you start arresting
anyone.”</p>

<p>“I'm not talking about arresting anyone, sir,” the
Inspector replied in an injured tone. “I'm just
reviewing possible motives.”</p>

<p>“Quite true. Can't one make a feeble joke without
rasping your susceptibilities? Now is that the end of
your list?”</p>

<p>“I think so, sir.”</p>

<p>“Ah! You didn't think of including someone with
the initial ‘B,’ then? You remember the ‘B’ on the
bracelet?”</p>

<p>The Inspector seemed rather startled.</p>

<p>“You mean this fellow B. might have been a
discarded lover of Mrs. Silverdale's who was out for
revenge like the Hailsham girl? I hadn't thought of that.
It's possible, of course.”</p>

<p>“Now let's turn to a fresh side of the case,” Sir
Clinton suggested. “One thing's certain; hyoscine played
a part in the affair. What about Mr. Justice's pertinent
inquiry: ‘Who had access to hyoscine at the
Croft-Thornton Institute?’ ”</p>

<p>“Every blessed soul in the place, so far as I could
see,” the Inspector confessed, rather ruefully. “Silverdale,
Markfield, young Hassendean, and the two girls:
they all had equal chances of helping themselves from
that bottle in the store. I don't think that leads very
far. That hyoscine was common property so far as access
to it went. Anyone might have taken some.”</p>

<p>“Then push the thing a little further. Out of all that
list, who had an opportunity of administering hyoscine
to Mrs. Silverdale—directly or indirectly—on the night
she died?”</p>

<p>“Directly or indirectly?” Flamborough mused.
“There's something in that perhaps. On the face of it,
only three people could have administered the drug
directly, since there were only three people at Heatherfield
in a fit state to do it. I take it that she swallowed
the stuff at Heatherfield, sir, because I found no trace
of a paper which might have held it, either at the
bungalow or on the bodies of young Hassendean and
Mrs. Silverdale.”</p>

<p>“That's sound, I believe,” Sir Clinton acquiesced.
“She swallowed the stuff at Heatherfield before going
out. Now who are your three suspects?”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Silverdale herself might have taken it, sir,
either on purpose or by mistake.”</p>

<p>“But she had no access to hyoscine that we
know of.”</p>

<p>“No, sir, but both Silverdale and young Hassendean
had. She may have taken it in mistake for a headache
powder or something of that sort. And it might have
been added to a headache powder by either Silverdale
or young Hassendean.”</p>

<p>“That's a good enough suggestion, Inspector. But
I didn't see any sign of a powder paper in her room
when I searched it; and you remember she came
straight downstairs and went out of the house,
according to the maid's evidence. Any other view?”</p>

<p>“Then it must have been administered in the coffee,
sir, by either young Hassendean or the maid.”</p>

<p>“The maid? Where would she get hyoscine?”</p>

<p>“From Silverdale, sir. It's just occurred to me.
Silverdale wanted a divorce; but he couldn't get
evidence because his wife was simply playing with young
Hassendean and keeping well within the limits. But if
she were drugged, then young Hassendean might seize
the chance that was offered to him, and if Silverdale
was prepared beforehand, he'd have his evidence at the
cost of watching them for an hour or two.”</p>

<p>“So Silverdale gave the maid the drug to put in one
of the cups of coffee and ordered her to give that cup
to Mrs. Silverdale, you think?”</p>

<p>“It's possible, sir. I don't put it higher. That maid
was a simple creature—look how the doctor pumped
her on the pretence of getting medical information
that night. She was devoted to Silverdale; he told us
that himself. She'd swallow any talk he chose to hand
out to her. Suppose he faked up some yarn about Mrs.
Silverdale needing a sedative but refusing to take it.
The maid would believe that from Silverdale, and she'd
put the hyoscine into the cup quite innocently. If the
worst came to the worst, and the cups got mixed, then
young Hassendean would get the dose instead.”</p>

<p>“It's asking a bit too much, I'm afraid. Remember
it was a heavy over-dose that was given.”</p>

<p>“Everybody's liable to make a mistake, sir.”</p>

<p>“True. And I suppose you'd say that after the murder
at the bungalow Silverdale awoke to the fact that
the maid's evidence about the hyoscine would hang
him, probably; so he went back and murdered her
also.”</p>

<p>“It was someone well known to her who did her in,
sir. That's clear enough.”</p>

<p>“In the meantime, you've left aside the possibility
that young Hassendean may have administered the
stuff. How does that strike you?”</p>

<p>“It's possible, sir,” the Inspector admitted
cautiously. “But there's no evidence for it.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I shouldn't like to go so far as that,” Sir
Clinton said, chaffingly. “I'll tell you what evidence
there is on the point. There's Hassendean's own diary,
first of all. Then there's what we found in young
Hassendean's laboratory notebook.”</p>

<p>“But that was just some stuff about weighing
potash-bulbs, whatever they may be.”</p>

<p>“Quite correct. That was what it was.”</p>

<p>“Well, I'm no chemist, sir. It's off my beat.”</p>

<p>“There's no chemistry in it. I gave you the key to it
at the time. Then there's other evidence. Young
Hassendean was a careless worker. Everyone agreed on
that; and his notebook confirmed it. Next, there's
what Miss Hailsham said about hyoscine, which is more
or less common knowledge, nowadays, of course. And
there's young Hassendean's interference in the serving
of coffee at Heatherfield, that night. Finally, there's
what the maid said about Mrs. Silverdale's appearance
when she was going out of the house. Put all these
points together, and I'll engage to satisfy a jury that
young Hassendean administered the hyoscine to Mrs.
Silverdale in her coffee, with a definite purpose—but
not murder—in view.”</p>

<p>“I'll need to think over all that, sir. You seem pretty
sure about it.”</p>

<p>“I'm practically certain. Now look at the business
from another stand-point. Who had a grudge against
the two victims, either separately or together?”</p>

<p>“Silverdale, obviously.”</p>

<p>“Obviously, as you say. That's if you take them
together, of course. Now for a final problem. Who is
Mr. Justice? He seems to be in the know, somehow.
If we could lay hands on him, we might be near the
centre of things. He knew before anyone else that
something had happened at the bungalow. He knew about
the hyoscine at the Institute—although as Silverdale's
a fairly well-recognised authority on alkaloids, that
might have been just a shot aimed on chance.
Anyhow, look at it as you choose, Mr. Justice has
information, and he seems to have a motive. Who is
he, can you guess?”</p>

<p>“Somebody who won't come out into the open until
he's dragged there, evidently. It might be an
unwilling accomplice, sir.”</p>

<p>“That's possible. Anyone else?”</p>

<p>“It might be Spratton. He's got an interest in
establishing that it was a case of murder and not
suicide.”</p>

<p>“Obviously true. Anyone else?”</p>

<p>“I can't think of anyone else who would fit the
case, sir. By the way, I've got the originals of these
advertisements—the code ones. I sent down to the
newspaper offices and got hold of them.”</p>

<p>He produced two sheets of paper from his pocket-book
and handed them to the Chief Constable. Sir
Clinton glanced over them.</p>

<p>“H'm! The first one—the letters—is built up as
usual from telegram forms. The one with the numbers
is fitted together from numbers printed in a newspaper;
it might have been clipped from one of these lists of the
results of drawings of bonds for redemption—Underground
Electric Railways, and that kind of thing.
These advertisements have columns and columns of
figures out of which he'd be able to pick what he
wanted easily enough. Now what about this address
that he's put down—the usual guarantee of good faith
at the bottom. It's fictitious, of course?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. There's no such place.”</p>

<p>“It's in writing. It looks like a girl's writing. This is
a dangerous game for Mr. Justice; but I suppose if he'd
put all the advertisement in clipped-out letters the
newspaper people might have got suspicious and
refused to print it. What about this handwriting,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>Flamborough's expression showed that he felt he had
done his work thoroughly.</p>

<p>“I managed to get hold of specimens of the writing
of Miss Hailsham and Miss Deepcar. It isn't either of
them. Then I tried to get it recognised—and I
succeeded, sir. Miss Hailsham recognised it at once. It's
Mrs. Silverdale's own writing!”</p>

<p>“A forgery, then? That's very neat of Mr. Justice.
I feel inclined to take off my hat to that fellow. He
thinks of everything.”</p>

<p>“Well, it's a blank end for us, so far as I can see, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be so lost in admiration of
Mr. Justice's ingenuity that he failed to notice
Flamborough's dissatisfaction. When he spoke again, it was
on a different topic.</p>

<p>“What about your friend, Mr. Whalley, Inspector?
It seems to me we ought to have him up and put him
through it as quick as possible. Quite obviously he
knows something.”</p>

<p>“I've tried to get hold of him, sir. But he's left the
town and I can't get on his track. He's gone off to some
race-meeting or other, I expect. He often goes off like
that and leaves no address. I'll lay hands on him as
soon as he comes back to Westerhaven.”</p>

<p>“He's an essential witness, I suspect; so don't let
him slip through your fingers. You'd better ask for
assistance from the local police in likely places.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>

<p>“And now, Inspector, how are you getting along
with the game of eliminations? How low have you
brought the possibles out of the original nine
solutions?”</p>

<p>Flamborough produced his often-unfolded scrap of
paper and scanned it once more.</p>

<p>“If one accepts what you said a minute or two ago,
sir, then the drugging of Mrs. Silverdale was meant to
be plain drugging and wasn't wilful murder. So the
last case drops out.”</p>

<p>He put his pencil through the line of writing.</p>

<p>“That leaves only two alternatives:</p>

<table class="solutions">
<tbody><tr>
<th class="left">Hassendean</th><th class="right">Mrs. Silverdale</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>X—Suicide</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="left"><span>Y—Murder</span></td><td class="right">Accident</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>And young Hassendean, from all accounts, was hardly
the lad to suicide by shooting himself twice in the
body—too painful for him. So it really looks rather like
Case Y. Certainly it's coming down to brass tacks
quicker than I thought it would.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XIII. <br/> The Murder of the Informer</h2>

<p>As he entered Sir Clinton's office on the following
morning, Inspector Flamborough blurted out bad
news without any preliminary beating about the bush.</p>

<p>“There's been another murder, sir,” he announced,
with a tinge of what seemed grievance in his tone.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked up from the mass of papers upon
his desk.</p>

<p>“Who is it, this time?” he demanded curtly.</p>

<p>“It's that fellow Whalley, sir—the man who seemed
to have some information about the bungalow affair.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable leaned back in his chair and
gazed at Flamborough with an expressionless face.</p>

<p>“This is really growing into a wholesale trade,” he
said, drily. “Four murders in quick succession, and
we've nothing to show for it. We can't go on waiting
until all the population of Westerhaven, bar one
individual, is exterminated; and then justify ourselves
by arresting the sole survivor on suspicion. The public's
getting restive, Inspector. It wants to know what we
do for our money, I gather.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough looked resentful.</p>

<p>“The public'll have to lump it, if it doesn't like it,”
he said crudely. “I've done my best. If you think I
ought to hand the thing over to someone else, sir, I'll
be only too glad to do so.”</p>

<p>“I'm not criticising you, Inspector,” Sir Clinton
reassured him. “Not being a member of the public—for
this purpose, at least—I know enough to appreciate
your difficulties. There's no burking the fact that
whoever's at the back of this affair is a sharper man than
the usual clumsy murderer. He hasn't left you much of
a chance to pick up usable clues.”</p>

<p>“I've followed up every one that he did leave,”
Flamborough argued. “I don't think I've been exactly
idle. But I can't arrest Silverdale merely because I
picked up his cigarette-holder in suspicious surroundings.
Confound the public! It doesn't understand the
difference between having a suspicion and being able
to prove a case.”</p>

<p>“Let's hear the details of this latest affair,” Sir
Clinton demanded, putting aside the other subject.</p>

<p>“I've been trying to get hold of this fellow Whalley
for the last day or two, sir, so as to follow up that line
as soon as possible,” the Inspector began. “But, as I
told you, he's been away from Westerhaven—hasn't
been seen anywhere in his usual haunts. I've made
repeated inquiries at his lodgings, but could get no word
of him except that he'd gone off. He'd left no word
about coming back; but he obviously did mean to
turn up again, for he left all his traps there and said
nothing about giving up his bedroom.”</p>

<p>“You didn't get on his track elsewhere?”</p>

<p>“No, I hardly expected it. He's a very average-looking
man and one couldn't expect people to pick
him out of a crowd at a race-meeting by his
appearance.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded as a permission to the Inspector
to continue his narrative.</p>

<p>“This morning, shortly before seven o'clock,”
Flamborough continued, “the driver of a milk-lorry
on the Lizardbridge Road noticed something in the
ditch by the roadside. It was about half an hour before
sunrise, so I expect he still had his lamps alight. It's
pretty dark, these misty mornings. Anyhow, he saw
something sticking up out of the ditch and he stopped
his lorry. Then he made out that it was a hand and
arm; so he got down from his seat and had a closer
look. I expect he took it for a casual drunk sleeping
things off quietly. However, when he got up to the
side of the road, he found the body of a man in the
ditch, face downward.</p>

<p>“This milkman was a sensible fellow, it seems. He
felt the flesh where he could get at it without moving
the body; and the coldness of it satisfied him that he'd
got a deader on his hands. So instead of muddling
about and trampling all over the neighbourhood, he
very sensibly got aboard his lorry again and drove in
towards town in search of a policeman. When he met
one, he and the constable went back on the lorry to the
dead man; and the constable stood on guard whilst
the milkman set off with the lorry again to give the
alarm.”</p>

<p>“Did you go down yourself, by any chance,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. The constable happened to recognise
Whalley from what he could see of him—I told you he
was pretty well known to our men—and knowing that
I'd been making inquiries about the fellow, they called
me up, and I went down at once.”</p>

<p>“Yes?”</p>

<p>“When I got there, sir,” the Inspector continued,
“it didn't take long to see what was what. It was a case
of the tourniquet again. Whalley had been strangled,
just like the maid at Heatherfield. Quite obvious
symptoms: face swollen and congested; tongue
swollen, too; eyes wide open and injected a bit, with
dilated pupils; some blood on the mouth and nostrils.
And when I had a chance of looking for it, there was
the mark of the tourniquet on his neck sure enough.”</p>

<p>Flamborough paused, as though to draw attention to
his next point.</p>

<p>“I hunted about in the ditch, of course. And there,
lying quite openly, was the tourniquet itself. Quite a
complicated affair this time; he's evidently improved
his technique.”</p>

<p>“Well, what about it?” Sir Clinton demanded
rather testily, as though impatient of the Inspector's
comments.</p>

<p>“Here it is, sir.”</p>

<p>Flamborough produced the lethal instrument with
something of a flourish.</p>

<p>“You see, sir, it's made out of a banjo-string threaded
through a bit of rubber tubing. The handles are just
bits of wood cut from a tree-branch, the same as before;
but the banjo-string and the rubber tube are a vast
improvement on the bit of twine he used last time, at
Heatherfield. There'd be no chance of the banjo-string
breaking under the strain; and the rubber tube would
distribute the pressure and prevent the wire cutting
into the flesh as it would have done if it had been used
bare.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton picked up the tourniquet and examined
it with obvious interest.</p>

<p>“H'm! I don't say you've much to go on, but there's
certainly more here than there was in the other
tourniquet. The banjo-string's not much help, of course;
one can buy 'em in any musical-instrument shop. But
the rubber tubing might suggest something to you.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough scrutinised it afresh.</p>

<p>“It's very thick-walled, sir, with a much smaller
bore than one would expect from the outside diameter.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>

<p>“It's what they call ‘pressure-tubing’ in a chemical
laboratory. It's used when you're pumping out vessels
or working under reduced pressures generally. That's
why it's made so thick-walled: so that it won't
collapse flat under the outside air-pressure when you've
pumped all the gas out of the channel in the middle.”</p>

<p>“I see,” said the Inspector, fingering the tubing
thoughtfully. “So it's the sort of thing one finds in a
scientific place like the Croft-Thornton Institute?”</p>

<p>“Almost certainly,” Sir Clinton agreed. “But don't
get too sure about your rubber tubing. Suppose
someone is trying to throw suspicion on one of the
Croft-Thornton staff, wouldn't this be an excellent way of
doing it? One can buy pressure-tubing in the open
market. It's not found exclusively in scientific
institutes, you know.”</p>

<p>Flamborough seemed a shade crestfallen at the loss
of what he had evidently regarded as a promising line.</p>

<p>“Oh, indeed?” he said. “I suppose you're right,
sir. Still it's a bit uncommon, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“Not what you'd expect the ordinary criminal to
hit on straight off, I suppose you mean? But this fellow
isn't an ordinary criminal. He's got plenty of brains.
Now doesn't it strike you as strange that he should go
to the trouble of leaving this tourniquet for your
inspection? He could have slipped it into his pocket
easily enough and it wouldn't have bulged much.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, a glance at the body would show anyone
that something of the sort had been used. He wasn't
giving much away by leaving the thing itself, was he?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton did not seem altogether satisfied with the
Inspector's view.</p>

<p>“The less a murderer leaves behind, the more
difficult it is to catch him, Inspector. That's a truism.
Now this fellow is no fool, as I've frequently remarked
to you. Hence one might have anticipated that he'd
leave as few traces as possible. But here he presents
us with the actual weapon, and a weapon that has
fairly salient peculiarities of its own. Queer, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“Then you think it's a non-scientific murderer
using scientific appliances so as to suggest that the
crime was done by someone in the scientific
line—Silverdale, I mean?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was silent for a moment or two, then he
said thoughtfully:</p>

<p>“What I'm not sure about is whether it's a pure
bluff or a double bluff. It looks like one or the other.”</p>

<p>The Inspector obviously had difficulty in interpreting
this rather cryptic utterance. At last he saw his way
through it.</p>

<p>“I think I see what you mean, sir. Suppose it's not
Silverdale that did the murder. Then somebody—knowing
that this kind of tubing's common in Silverdale's
laboratory—may have left it on purpose for us
to find, so that we'd be bluffed into jumping to the
conclusion—as I admit I did—that Silverdale did the
trick. That would be a simple bluff. Or again,
supposing it's Silverdale who's the murderer, then he may
have left the tubing on purpose, because he'd say to
himself that we'd never believe that he'd be such a
fool as to chuck a thing like that down beside the
body—and hence we'd pass him over in our suspicions.
Is that it, sir?”</p>

<p>“It sounds devilish involved, as you put it, Inspector;
but I have a sort of dim perception that you've grasped
my meaning,” Sir Clinton answered. “My own
impression is simply that we musn't let this tourniquet
lead us too far, for fear we go completely astray. If we
get on the right track, I've no doubt it'll fit neatly
enough to the rest of the evidence; but it's not the sort
of thing I'd care about staking a lot on by itself. Now
suppose we come out of these flowery by-paths and get
back to the main thoroughfare of the facts.”</p>

<p>The Inspector refused to be damped by his superior.
Indeed, he had the air of a player holding good cards,
and not caring who knew it.</p>

<p>“It was hard frost last night, sir, as you’ll remember;
so there were no foot-prints on the road, or anything of
that sort. But the grass by the side of the ditch is fairly
long; and when I examined it, it was clear enough
that there hadn't been any struggle on it. They may
have struggled on the road, of course; but the grass
was quite undisturbed.”</p>

<p>“Then the body hadn't been dragged off the road into
the ditch? It must have been lifted and pitched in?”</p>

<p>“So I think, sir. The grass border between road and
ditch is quite narrow—just room to stand on it
comfortably. One could hoist a body over it without too
much trouble.”</p>

<p>“And from the look of the body you think it had
been thrown in?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. It was huddled up anyhow in the ditch, just
as it might have fallen if it had been dropped in with a
thud.”</p>

<p>“Single-handed business, then, you believe?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, I think if two people had been handling
him—one taking his shoulders and another taking his
feet—he'd have fallen more tidily. He certainly looked
as if he's been bundled in anyhow. I'd put it down as a
single-handed job from the look of it.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you examined the pockets, and so forth?”
Sir Clinton asked.</p>

<p>“Of course, sir. But there was nothing in <em>them</em> of any
use to us.”</p>

<p>The Inspector's voice betrayed that he had something
still in reserve. Now he brought it forward.</p>

<p>“I examined his hands, sir; and in the right one, I
found something important. The hand was clenched,
and when I got it open at last, this fell out.”</p>

<p>He produced a button with a shred of cloth attached
to it, which he laid on the desk before Sir Clinton. The
Chief Constable picked it up, examined it closely, and
then, pulling out a pocket magnifying glass, made a still
more minute inspection.</p>

<p>“Very interesting, Inspector. What do you make of
it?”</p>

<p>“Obviously it was torn off the murderer's clothes
during the struggle, sir. And I've seen something like it
before. You see that canary-coloured stain on the bit of
cloth and also on the threads that hold the button to
the fabric?”</p>

<p>“Dyed with picric acid, by the look of it, I should
say. Is that what you mean?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. And the pattern of the cloth's another
point.”</p>

<p>“You mean it looks like a button torn off the old
jacket that Silverdale was wearing, that day we saw him
at the Croft-Thornton Institute—his laboratory coat?”</p>

<p>“That's undoubtedly what it is, sir. I remember that
stain perfectly. And as soon as I saw it, I remembered
the pattern of the cloth.”</p>

<p>“And your view is?”</p>

<p>“I think that when Silverdale set out to murder
Whalley he was afraid that some blood from the face
might get on to his coat. So he put on his old laboratory
jacket. If it got spotted, he could destroy it and rouse
no suspicions. It was only an old coat that he might
think was worn out. Quite a different thing from
destroying some of his ordinary clothes. That would
have been suspicious. But an old coat—no one would
wonder if he got rid of it and brought another one down
to the laboratory to replace it.”</p>

<p>“It sounds deuced plausible, Inspector, I must
admit. But——”</p>

<p>“But what, sir?”</p>

<p>“Well,” Sir Clinton answered thoughtfully, “it
leaves us again with the choice between the single and
the double bluff, you see, even if one goes no further
with one's inquiries.”</p>

<p>The Inspector pondered over the point for a few
seconds, but at the end of his cogitation he seemed
unimpressed. Apparently, however, he thought it wise
to change the subject.</p>

<p>“In any case, sir, I think Whalley's part in the
bungalow affair is pretty plain now. I told you he was the
sort of fellow who was out for easy money, no matter
how dirty it might be. By the way, he was the man who
inquired about the number of that motor which he said
knocked him spinning—an obvious try-on to get
damages, although he wasn't hurt at all. You can see he'd
do anything to make money and save himself from
honest work. If you remember that, it's easy enough to
see the part he played at the bungalow. He was the
person you christened Peeping Tom.”</p>

<p>“Anything further about him that you can think of,
Inspector? I don't say you're wrong, of course.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, if Silverdale expected to take his wife
in <i lang="it">flagrante delicto</i>, he'd need an independent witness,
wouldn't he? Possibly Whalley was the man he picked
out for the work.”</p>

<p>“Do you think he was the sort of witness that was
wanted? I'm not so sure of his suitability myself.”</p>

<p>“It wasn't exactly a nice job, sir,” the Inspector
pointed out. “Silverdale would hardly care to take one
of his close friends to inspect an affair of that sort. And
of course a woman——”</p>

<p>He broke off suddenly, as though struck by a fresh
idea. Sir Clinton ignored the last phrase of the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Assume that Whalley was the witness, then, what
next?”</p>

<p>“Assume that Silverdale posted Whalley at the
second window and went round to the first one—at the
front. Then, to make the thing complete, he breaks in
through the window and jumps into the room. Young
Hassendean has his pistol and mistakes the state of
affairs—thinks that Silverdale means to thrash him or
worse. He pulls out his pistol and there's a struggle for
the possession of it. The pistol goes off accidentally, and
the bullet hits Mrs. Silverdale in the head by pure
chance. Then the struggle goes on, and in the course of
it, young Hassendean gets shot twice over in the
lung.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable looked at his subordinate with
quite unaffected respect.</p>

<p>“It looks as if you'd come very near the truth there,”
he admitted. “Go on.”</p>

<p>“The rest's fairly obvious, if you grant what's gone
before. Whalley's seen the whole affair from his post at
the window. He sneaks off into the dark and gets out
of Silverdale's reach. If he hadn't, then Silverdale
would probably have shot him at sight to destroy the
chance of evidence against him. But when Whalley has
time to think things over, he sees he's got a gold-mine in
the business. If he can blackmail Silverdale, he's got a
steady income for life. But I expect he weakened and
tried to play for safety. He blackmailed Silverdale;
then he came to us, so that he could say he'd been to
the police, meaning to give information. Then he went
back to Silverdale, and in some way he let out that he'd
given us a call. That would be enough for Silverdale.
Whalley would have to go the way the maid went. And
so he did.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton had listened intently to the Inspector's
reconstruction of the episode.</p>

<p>“That's very neat indeed, Inspector,” he adjudged
at the close. “It's quite sound, so far as it goes, and so
far as one can see. But, of course, it leaves one or two
points untouched. Where does the murder of the maid
come into the business?”</p>

<p>Flamborough reflected for a moment or two before
answering.</p>

<p>“I'm not prepared to fill that gap just at this
moment, sir. But I'll suggest something. Renard told
us that Mrs. Silverdale was going to draw up a note of
the terms of her new will. It's on the cards that
Silverdale knew about that—she may have mentioned it to
him. He'd want to get that note and destroy it at any
cost, before there was any search of his house or any
hunting through Mrs. Silverdale's possessions.”</p>

<p>“He might have thought it worth while, I admit. But
I'd hardly think it important enough to lead to an
unnecessary murder. Besides, it wasn't necessary for
Silverdale to murder the maid at all. It was his own
house. He could search where he chose in it and nobody
could object. The maid wouldn't see anything strange
in that.”</p>

<p>“It was pretty clear that the maid knew her
murderer, anyhow,” the Inspector pointed out.
“Everything points to that. I admit I'm only making
a guess, sir. I can't bring any evidence against
Silverdale on that count yet. For all one can tell, she may
have seen something—blood on his coat from the shots,
or something of that sort. Then he'd have to silence
her.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made no comment on the Inspector's
suggestion. Instead, he turned to a fresh aspect of the
case.</p>

<p>“And where does Mr. Justice come into your theory
of the affair? He wasn't your friend Whalley. That's
evident.”</p>

<p>The Inspector rubbed his nose thoughtfully, as
though trying to gain inspiration from the friction.</p>

<p>“It's a fact, sir, that I can't fit Mr. Justice into my
theory at present. He wasn't Whalley, and that's a fact.
But hold on a moment! Suppose that Whalley wasn't
Silverdale's witness at all. Come to think of it, Whalley
was hardly the sort that one would pick out for the job,
if one had been in Silverdale's shoes.”</p>

<p>“I'm quite convinced of that, at any rate, Inspector.
You needn't waste breath in persuading me.”</p>

<p>“Yes, but there's another possibility that's been
overlooked, sir,” Flamborough interrupted eagerly. “I've
been assuming all along that Silverdale was the only
person at the opened window. But suppose he'd brought
someone along with him. Both of them might have been
looking through the front window, whilst Whalley was at
the side window, quite unknown to them at the time.”</p>

<p>“Now you're getting positively brilliant, Inspector,”
Sir Clinton commended. “I think you've got at least
half the truth there, beyond a doubt.”</p>

<p>“Who could Silverdale's witness have been?” the
Inspector pursued, as if impatient of the interruption.
“What about the Deepcar girl?”</p>

<p>“Think again,” Sir Clinton advised him drily. “Do
you really suppose that Silverdale—who seems in love
with the girl—would have picked her out for business
of that sort? It's incredible, Inspector.”</p>

<p>The first flush of enthusiasm at his discovery passed
from Flamborough's thoughts at the tone of the Chief
Constable's voice.</p>

<p>“I suppose you're right, sir,” he had to admit. “But
there's another girl who'd have enjoyed the job—and
that's the Hailsham girl. She'd have given a good deal
just for the pleasure of seeing those two humiliated.
She'd have gloated over the chance of giving that
particular evidence in court and squaring accounts with
young Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale. It would have
been all jam to her, sir. You can't deny that.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton conceded the point without ado.</p>

<p>“I won't deny it,” he said curtly. “But you needn't
let your mind run exclusively on the female population
of Westerhaven in a matter of this sort. A man would be
a much more convenient witness for Silverdale to take
with him. Why leave Silverdale's male friends out of
account?”</p>

<p>“If you're thinking of Markfield, sir, we'll not get
much out of him, I'm afraid,” Flamborough pronounced.
“So far, except when he couldn't help it, he's
done his level best to refuse any information about
Silverdale and his doings—if he hasn't actually served
out misleading statements to us. I don't much care for
Dr. Markfield's way of going about things.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton crossed the room and took down his hat
from its peg.</p>

<p>“Well, let's sample his methods once more, Inspector.
We'll go round now to the Croft-Thornton and
look into the question of the jacket. You can bear the
burden of the interview, if you like; but I should prefer
to hear what goes on. And you might press Silverdale a
little more sharply about his doings on the night of the
bungalow affair. We may as well give him a chance of
second thoughts, though really I don't expect anything
from him at this stage.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XIV. <br/> The Jacket</h2>

<p>Sir Clinton and the Inspector found Markfield at
work in his laboratory when they reached the
Croft-Thornton Institute. Flamborough wasted no time in
preliminaries, but plunged at once into the business
which had brought him there.</p>

<p>“What do you make of that, Dr. Markfield?” he
demanded, producing the shred of cloth with the button
attached and showing them to the chemist.</p>

<p>Markfield examined the object carefully, but his face
showed only a certain bewilderment when he looked up
at the Inspector again.</p>

<p>“It seems to be a button and a bit of cloth with a
picric acid stain on it,” he pointed out with a tinge of
irony. “Do you want me to make an expert examination
of it? If so, you'd better tell me some more about it,
so that I'll know what you want with it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough stared at him for a moment or two, as
though trying to read something in his expression, but
Markfield seemed in no way put out.</p>

<p>“I'm not a mind-reader, Inspector,” he pointed out.
“You'll need to explain clearly what you expect me to
do; and I'll have to be told whether I can cut bits out of
your specimen for chemical analysis.”</p>

<p>Flamborough saw that his attempt to draw Markfield
was not going to be so easy as he had hoped.</p>

<p>“Have a good look at the thing first of all,” he
suggested. “Can you remember anything like it?”</p>

<p>Markfield stolidly examined the object once more.</p>

<p>“It's a button and a piece of cloth,” he said at last.
“Of course I've seen buttons before, and bits of cloth
are not uncommon. I should think that this stain is a
picric acid one, but that's a matter for further
examination before I could say anything definite. Is that what
you wanted?”</p>

<p>Flamborough kept his temper with difficulty.</p>

<p>“What I want to know, Dr. Markfield, is whether
you have recently seen anything that you could
associate with that thing—any garment from which it might
have been torn, or anything of that sort.”</p>

<p>Markfield's eyes narrowed and he glanced with
obvious unfriendliness at the Inspector.</p>

<p>“It's a coat-button, by the look of it. I'm no specialist
in buttons, I admit. It might have come off any lounge
suit, so far as I can see.”</p>

<p>“I'd advise you not to fence with us too long, Dr.
Markfield,” Flamborough suggested. “Look at the
cloth. Does that remind you of anything that's familiar
to you?”</p>

<p>Markfield's face betrayed his obvious annoyance.</p>

<p>“I suppose you've identified it already for yourselves.
Why come to me? Presumably you mean that it's a bit
torn off Dr. Silverdale's laboratory coat. Well, I can't
swear to that. It may be, for all I know. Why not
compare it with the coat, and if the coat's torn, you've got
your evidence, whatever it may be. I don't see why you
drag me into the thing at all.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's voice grew hard as he answered:</p>

<p>“There's one thing I want you to bear in mind, Dr.
Markfield. A man may very easily become an accessory
after the fact in a murder case; and the penalty runs
as high as penal servitude for life. I'm not at all satisfied
with the way in which you seem to have determined to
evade some of the questions I've had to put to you; and
I'd like to remind you that you may be running risks.
It would be far better if you'd deal frankly with us
instead of shuffling.”</p>

<p>The covert threat seemed to have its effect on
Markfield. He looked sulky, but he appeared to make up his
mind to alter his tactics.</p>

<p>“Well, ask your questions, then,” he snapped. “But
put them on matters of fact. I'm not going to say what I <em>think</em>
about this and what I <em>suppose</em> about that. I'll tell
you anything that I <em>know</em> definitely, if you ask about it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough wasted no time before taking up the
challenge.</p>

<p>“Very good, Dr. Markfield. We'll stick to facts, if
you like. Now once upon a time you saw Dr. Silverdale
acting in some private theatricals, I believe. I learned
that from Dr. Ringwood. That's correct, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“Yes. We were members of a small amateur show at
one time.”</p>

<p>“In any of his parts, did Dr. Silverdale play the
banjo?”</p>

<p>Markfield reflected for a moment.</p>

<p>“I think he did.”</p>

<p>“He's an expert banjo-player?”</p>

<p>“He plays the banjo,” Markfield corrected. “I'm
not going to give you my opinion about his playing.
That's not a question of fact; it's a mere matter of
taste.”</p>

<p>Flamborough let this pass without comment.</p>

<p>“He plays the banjo, anyhow. That's what I want to
get at.”</p>

<p>He stepped across the laboratory to where a little
glass apparatus was attached to a tap at a sink and
examined the rubber tubing attached.</p>

<p>“What's this thing here?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“A water-pump,” Markfield answered, as though
not quite following the Inspector's train of thought.</p>

<p>“And this rubber tubing, what sort of stuff is it?”</p>

<p>“Pressure-tubing. What about it?”</p>

<p>“Does Dr. Silverdale use anything of that sort?”</p>

<p>“Everybody in the place uses it. Whenever one wants
quick filtering one uses a water-pump with
pressure-tubing connections.”</p>

<p>“Miss Deepcar and Miss Hailsham use it, then?”</p>

<p>“I should think there are a dozen or two of these
pumps in this department alone. They're ordinary
fittings in every chemical laboratory. If I may ask,
Inspector, what are you getting at?”</p>

<p>Flamborough switched off to a fresh line without
making any direct reply.</p>

<p>“Is Miss Deepcar here to-day?”</p>

<p>“I don't think so. I believe she's out of town—been
away for a couple of days. I'll send a message to find out
definitely if you want to know.”</p>

<p>Flamborough shook his head.</p>

<p>“Don't trouble. I can find out for myself.”</p>

<p>“I heard that she would be back the day after
to-morrow,” Markfield volunteered. “But you'd better
find out for yourself of course.”</p>

<p>Again the Inspector turned to a fresh line.</p>

<p>“Do you know anything about a man Whalley—Peter
Whalley?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“Whalley?” Markfield repeated as though trying to
recall the name. “Whalley? Oh, yes. He came to me
with some story about having been hit by my car on a
foggy night. I didn't believe him. I knew I'd hurt no
one with the car, though once I came near it that night.
Mr. Whalley got no change out of me.”</p>

<p>“He didn't go any further in the matter, then?”</p>

<p>“I heard no more about it. The thing was so
obviously a try-on that I didn't even advise my insurance
company about it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough reflected for a few moments, obviously
trying to think of fresh questions which he could put;
but apparently he had come to the end of his stock.</p>

<p>“We'll go along to Dr. Silverdale's room,” he said,
leading the way to the door. “You had better come
with us, Dr. Markfield. You'll do as a witness, perhaps.”</p>

<p>“I'm not very keen,” Markfield retorted
grumblingly.</p>

<p>However, he followed Sir Clinton and the Inspector
along the corridors to Silverdale's laboratory. The room
was empty, but the door was unlocked and the Inspector
opened it and stepped inside. A glance round the place
revealed Silverdale's laboratory jacket hanging on a
peg; and Flamborough went over and took it down.</p>

<p>“Now we'll see,” he said, laying it on the table and
spreading it out for examination. “Ah, I thought there
was no mistake.”</p>

<p>He pointed to the right-hand side, where it was
obvious that one of the buttons had been wrenched
away, taking a piece of the cloth with it.</p>

<p>“Now we'll see if it fits,” Flamborough continued,
producing the fragment of fabric found in Whalley's
hand and adjusting it to the tear in the coat. “That's
clear enough. You see now the stains on the two bits
correspond exactly.”</p>

<p>Markfield leaned over and satisfied himself that the
Inspector's statement was accurate.</p>

<p>“What is this bit of cloth?” he asked.</p>

<p>Flamborough, however, had found something
further, and Markfield got no answer to his question.</p>

<p>“Look there,” the Inspector ejaculated, indicating a
a small brownish stain on the breast of the jacket.
“That's blood, clear enough.”</p>

<p>Markfield seemed about to repeat his demand for
information when steps sounded in the corridor
outside. Flamborough picked up the coat, moved swiftly
across the room, and hung the garment on its original
peg. As he turned away unconcernedly from the spot,
the door opened and Silverdale entered the laboratory.
He seemed taken aback by the presence of the police
and looked from one to another in the group without
speaking. Then he came forward.</p>

<p>“Do you want me?” he asked, in a colourless voice.</p>

<p>Markfield seemed rather ashamed at being caught
there in the company of the two officials. He was about
to say something when Flamborough robbed him of
the opportunity.</p>

<p>“I've come to put one or two questions, Dr.
Silverdale,” the Inspector began. “First of all, have you had
any dealings lately with a man named Peter Whalley?”</p>

<p>Silverdale was obviously taken aback.</p>

<p>“Whalley?” he repeated. “I know nothing about
anyone of that name. Who is he?”</p>

<p>Flamborough seemed to discount this statement, but
he did not persist along that direct line.</p>

<p>“Can you tell us what you were doing last night?”
he demanded.</p>

<p>Silverdale reflected for a time before answering.</p>

<p>“I left here about six o’clock—between six and
six-thirty. Then I walked down to the Central Hotel and
had dinner. I suppose I left the hotel again about a
quarter to eight. I walked home, as it was a clear night;
and I did some work until about half-past eleven. After
that I went to bed and read for a while before going to
sleep.”</p>

<p>Flamborough jotted something in his notebook before
going further.</p>

<p>“I suppose you could produce some witnesses in
support of that?” he asked.</p>

<p>Silverdale appeared to consult his memory.</p>

<p>“I met Miss Hailsham as I was leaving here,” he
explained. “That would give you the approximate
time, if she remembers it. The waiter at the Central
could probably satisfy you that I was there—it's the tall
one with the wart on his cheek who looks after the
tables at the north window. After that, you'll have to
take my word for it.”</p>

<p>“What about your maids at Heatherfield?”</p>

<p>“I haven't anyone on the premises. No maid would
take the place owing to the murder. I merely sleep
there and take my meals at an hotel. A charwoman
comes in during the day and cleans the place.”</p>

<p>“Ah,” said the Inspector, thoughtfully. “Then you
can't prove that you were actually at home after, say,
half-past eight? By the way, you hadn't a visitor by
any chance?”</p>

<p>Silverdale shook his head.</p>

<p>“No, I was quite alone.”</p>

<p>Flamborough made another note; and then
continued his interrogation.</p>

<p>“I want you to cast your mind back to the night
when Mrs. Silverdale came by her death. I asked you
once before what you were doing that night, but you
put me off. I think you'd find it more advisable to be
frank, now that I'm putting the question again.”</p>

<p>Silverdale's face showed some conflict of emotions,
and he evidently considered the matter for almost a
minute before answering.</p>

<p>“I've nothing further to add,” he said at last.</p>

<p>“I'll put it plainly, so that there can be no mistake,”
Flamborough emphasised. “Can you give us any
account of your movements on the night that your maid
was murdered at Heatherfield?”</p>

<p>Silverdale tightened his lips and shook his head.</p>

<p>“I've no information to give you,” he said at
length.</p>

<p>“I may as well tell you, Dr. Silverdale,” said
Flamborough warningly, “that we have a certain amount
of information drawn from other sources. We may
know more than you think. Wouldn't it be best to be
frank with us?”</p>

<p>Silverdale shook his head definitely without making
any vocal reply. Flamborough concealed his
disappointment, though his face grew darker. He put his hand
into his waistcoat pocket and drew out something.</p>

<p>“Do you recognise that, Dr. Silverdale?”</p>

<p>Silverdale examined it.</p>

<p>“Yes, that's a cigarette-holder of mine. I recognise
it by the fly in it.”</p>

<p>“When did you discover that you had lost it?”</p>

<p>Silverdale was obviously at a loss.</p>

<p>“I can't tell you. Ten days ago or so, I should think.”</p>

<p>“Was it before or after the murder of your maid that
you missed it? Think carefully.”</p>

<p>“I can't remember,” Silverdale explained. “I didn't
note it down in a diary or anything of that sort, of
course. I use two or three holders. I leave them in the
pockets of different suits. Naturally if one of them goes
a-missing, I simply use one of the others; and perhaps
the missing one may turn up later. I can't give you
any exact date when this one went astray.”</p>

<p>Flamborough returned the holder to his pocket.</p>

<p>“You play the banjo, don't you, Dr. Silverdale?”</p>

<p>Silverdale seemed completely astounded by this
question.</p>

<p>“I used to do so,” he admitted, “but I haven't
played for quite a long time. The banjo isn't much in
request nowadays.”</p>

<p>“Have you bought strings for your instrument
recently?”</p>

<p>“No. I haven't. Last time I used it, two of the strings
snapped, and I never troubled to replace them.”</p>

<p>“Just so,” Flamborough said, as though attaching
no great importance to the point. “Now there's another
thing I'd like to ask about. I think that's your
laboratory coat hanging on the peg over there?”</p>

<p>Silverdale glanced across the room and nodded.</p>

<p>“When did you wear that coat last?” Flamborough
demanded.</p>

<p>“Last night,” Silverdale answered, after a slight
hesitation.</p>

<p>“You mean you took it off when you left the Institute
to go out to dinner?”</p>

<p>“Yes. This morning I've been up at the Research
Station, so I've had no occasion to change my
jacket.”</p>

<p>Flamborough crossed the room, took down the coat,
and spread it out on the table once more.</p>

<p>“Can you explain this?” he questioned, putting his
hand on the tear.</p>

<p>Silverdale stared at the rent in the cloth with dismay
gathering on his face. He looked like a man who finds
himself surrounded by enemies in unknown strength.</p>

<p>“I can't account for it,” he said curtly, with
whitened lips.</p>

<p>“Or for this blood-stain on it, I suppose?”
Flamborough demanded, putting his finger on the spot.</p>

<p>Silverdale's discomposure became even more obvious.
It was clear that he felt himself in a most dangerous
position; and his denials betrayed his nervousness.</p>

<p>“I've no idea how it came there. I noticed nothing
of the sort when I took the coat off last night. Neither
the tear nor that stain. I can't account for it at all.”</p>

<p>“You're sure you can't?” the Inspector persisted.</p>

<p>“I can't,” Silverdale repeated.</p>

<p>Much to the Inspector's annoyance, Markfield broke
into the interrogation.</p>

<p>“Why are you so sure that Dr. Silverdale has anything
to do with the matter?” he interjected in a sardonic
tone. “It's not impossible that someone borrowed
his jacket last night after he'd gone. Several of us were
on the premises after he left, I know.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, glancing up, surprised an expression
on Sir Clinton's face which indicated that his opinion
of Markfield had risen on account of this interposition;
and the Inspector felt his irritation against Markfield
increasing once more.</p>

<p>“I'm not asking for your assistance now, Dr. Markfield,”
he pointed out, chillingly. “I want to know
what Dr. Silverdale knows about the matter. You can
hardly speak as an authority on that point, can you?”</p>

<p>Markfield made no reply; but his smile was a comment
in itself and did nothing to soothe the Inspector's
ruffled feelings.</p>

<p>“I'll have to take this coat, Dr. Silverdale,”
Flamborough explained in an official tone. “It's a piece of
evidence which we must have in our charge.”</p>

<p>Then, as an afterthought, he added:</p>

<p>“A man Whalley has been murdered. The case
didn't get into the morning newspapers. You'll see it
in the evening news.”</p>

<p>His voice took on a sub-tinge of warning:</p>

<p>“If you think the better of your attitude, you'd be
well advised to come to us at once and tell us what you
can. It's hardly necessary to tell you that your silence
on these points is bound to raise suspicions; and if you
can clear things up, you may save yourself a good deal
of trouble.”</p>

<p>Markfield seemed to take a cynical pleasure in
destroying the Inspector's effects. Instead of leaving him
the last word, he closed the interview himself.</p>

<p>“They used to say a man was innocent until he was
proved guilty, Inspector,” he remarked ironically,
“but I see you've interchanged the adjectives
nowadays. It must save a lot of trouble to the police.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XV. <br/> Sir Clinton's Double</h2>

<p>Two days after the interview with Markfield and his
colleague at the Croft-Thornton Institute, Inspector
Flamborough came into Sir Clinton's office, obviously
in a state of faint trepidation.</p>

<p>“I've arrested Silverdale this morning, sir,” he
announced in a voice which betrayed that he was not
quite sure whether this step would meet his superior's
approval.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable exhibited neither surprise nor
disapproval at the news.</p>

<p>“I shouldn't care to say that you've got a complete
case against him, Inspector. Not yet, at any rate. But
he's got himself to thank for his troubles; and now I
expect things will begin to move a bit quicker in the
case. Mr. Justice will be calling up his last reserves.”</p>

<p>Flamborough seemed to feel that his action needed
some justification, though Sir Clinton had asked for
none.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it seems to me we had to forestall a
possible bolt on Silverdale's part. There's quite enough
evidence to justify his detention on suspicion in the
meantime.”</p>

<p>“There's just one point I'd like to know about,” Sir
Clinton said, disregarding the Inspector's statement.
“You've got four deaths to choose from. Which of them
are you going to select as your main case? You can
hardly put him on trial for all four simultaneously.
There's nothing against it legally, but you'd confuse
the jury, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p>“I thought the bungalow business would be best,
sir. There's a fair chance of establishing a motive in it;
whereas in the Heatherfield affair there's only
conjecture as to what he was after; and in the Whalley
case we simply haven't got enough evidence apart from
the jacket, unless we can prove that Silverdale was
the bungalow murderer. And if we can prove that,
then there's no need to enter into the Whalley case
at all.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced with a nod.</p>

<p>“The bungalow affair is the key to the whole series,”
he admitted without qualification.</p>

<p>There was a knock at the door and a constable
entered.</p>

<p>“A young lady wants to see you, sir,” he announced
as he crossed the room and handed a card to the Chief
Constable. “She insisted that she must see you
personally. There's a woman with her.”</p>

<p>“Send her up,” Sir Clinton ordered, after a glance
at the card.</p>

<p>When the constable had left the room, Sir Clinton
flicked the tiny oblong of pasteboard across his desk to
the Inspector who picked it up.</p>

<p>“Miss Avice Deepcar,” he read. “What the deuce
can she be wanting here?”</p>

<p>“Calm yourself, Inspector. The next instalment will
be published in a moment or two. You'd better wait
here while she interviews me.”</p>

<p>When Avice Deepcar entered the office, Flamborough
was puzzled by her manner. She seemed to be
agitated, but it was not the sort of agitation he had
expected. When she spoke, it sounded as if she were
both indignant and perturbed.</p>

<p>“You're Sir Clinton Driffield, aren't you?” she
demanded, scanning the Chief Constable closely.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable confessed to his identity.</p>

<p>“Then I'll come straight to the point,” Avice said.
“What is the meaning of your visiting my house last
night, terrorising my maid, and making a search
through my private papers? I'm going to see my
solicitor about it—I don't believe it's legal. But in the
meantime, I want to know why you did it.”</p>

<p>Flamborough was completely taken aback by this
charge. He stared open-mouthed at his superior. Sir
Clinton occasionally did things which mystified him;
but this seemed something completely out of the
common.</p>

<p>“He must have got a search-warrant without saying
anything about it to me,” the Inspector reflected. “But
why on earth didn't he take me with him, even if he
wanted to go through her papers personally?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's face had become an inscrutable mask.</p>

<p>“Perhaps you wouldn't mind being a little more explicit,
Miss Deepcar,” he suggested. “I'm not quite sure
that I understand your grievance.”</p>

<p>Avice Deepcar's face showed that she had nothing
but contempt for this apparent quibbling.</p>

<p>“If you think it worth while, I'll give you details,”
she said, disdainfully. “But you're not thinking of
denying it, are you? I've got a witness to prove the
facts, you know.”</p>

<p>With a gesture, Sir Clinton invited her to tell her
story.</p>

<p>“I've been away from home for a day or two,” Avice
began. “This morning, I came back to Westerhaven by
the eleven o’clock train and drove to my house in a
taxi. I left my maid alone in the house while I was
away; and when I got home again, I found her in a
great state of excitement. It seems that last night you
came to the door, showed her your card, and told her
that you had come to search the house on some matter
connected with these awful murders. Naturally she was
greatly shocked; but there was nothing for it but to
let you in. You went over the whole place, searched in
every corner of the house, opened every drawer, poked
your nose into all my private possessions—in fact, you
behaved as if I were a criminal under suspicion.”</p>

<p>She paused, as though to rein in her temper after
this sudden outpouring. Indignation had brought a
slight flush to her cheeks, and her quickened breathing
betrayed the agitation she was trying to keep under
control. Mechanically she changed the position of her
feet and smoothed down her skirt; and Flamborough's
sharp eye noted a trembling in her hand as she did so.
Sir Clinton maintained his silence and gazed at her
as though he expected further information.</p>

<p>“My maid was very much put about, naturally,”
she went on. “She asked you again and again what
was at the back of it all; but you gave her no
explanation whatever. When you'd completed your search of
my house, you sat down with a pile of correspondence
you'd collected—you see I know all about it—and you
began to read through my private letters. Some of
them you put aside; others you laid down in a pile on
my desk. When you'd finished reading them all, you
took away the ones you'd selected and left the rest on
the desk. Then you left the house, without offering the
slightest explanation of this raid of yours. I shan't stand
that, you know. You've no right to do things of that
sort—throwing suspicion on me in this way, without
the faintest ground for it. Naturally, my maid has been
babbling about it and everyone knows the police have
been on the premises. It's put me in a dreadful position;
and you'll have to give me an explanation and an
apology. It's no use trying to deny the facts, you know.
I can prove what I've said. And I want my letters
back at once—the ones you stole. . . . You've no right
to them, and I simply won't put up with this kind of
thing.”</p>

<p>She broke off once more, evidently afraid that she
was letting her feelings get the better of her. For a
moment or two Sir Clinton made no reply. He seemed
to be considering something carefully before he spoke.</p>

<p>“I suppose you know, Miss Deepcar,” he said at
last, “that Dr. Silverdale is under arrest.”</p>

<p>The girl's expression changed in an instant.
Something like fear replaced her earlier anger.</p>

<p>“Dr. Silverdale? Arrested?” she demanded, with
a tremor in her voice. “What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“He was arrested yesterday in connection with the
affair at the bungalow.”</p>

<p>Avice Deepcar's eyes showed her amazement at the
news.</p>

<p>“The affair at the bungalow?” she repeated. “But
he had nothing to do with that! He couldn't have had.”</p>

<p>All her indignation seemed to have been swept away
by this fresh information. She had the appearance of
someone upon whom a wholly unexpected peril has
descended. Sir Clinton seemed satisfied by the effect
of his words; but without giving her time for thought,
he pursued his narrative.</p>

<p>“Several things have turned up which seem to
implicate him in that affair, and when we tried to extract
some information from him about his movements on
the night of the bungalow murder, he refused to say
anything. He wouldn't tell us where he had been at that
time.”</p>

<p>Avice Deepcar clasped and unclasped her hands
mechanically for a second or two. It was obvious that
she was thinking swiftly and coming to some decision
upon which much might turn.</p>

<p>“He won't say where he was?” she demanded in a
trembling voice. “Why not?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made a vague gesture with his hand.</p>

<p>“I can hardly tell you his motive. Perhaps he hasn't
an alibi. I've told you what we know.”</p>

<p>He looked keenly at the girl before him, evidently
expecting something; and he was not disappointed.</p>

<p>“I can tell you where he was at that time,” Avice
said at last. “Probably you won't believe me, but this
is true, at any rate. He and I dined together in town
that evening and after dinner we went home to my
house. We had a lot to talk over. We reached my house
about half-past eight. And then we began to talk things
over. We had such a lot to discuss that the time passed
without our noticing it; and when at last he got up to
go, it was between one and two in the morning. So you
see he couldn't possibly have been at the bungalow.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton interjected a question:</p>

<p>“Why didn't Dr. Silverdale tell us all this frankly
when he was questioned about his movements during
that night?”</p>

<p>Avice Deepcar flushed at the direct attack, but she
evidently had made up her mind to make a clean breast
of the whole business.</p>

<p>“I told you that Dr. Silverdale was with me that
night from dinner-time until the early hours of the
morning. As it happened, my maid was away that day
and did not return until the next afternoon. You must
have a pretty good idea of what people would have said
about me if they got to know I'd been alone with Dr.
Silverdale in my house. I shouldn't have cared, really;
because there was nothing in it. We were simply talking.
But I expect that when you questioned him he thought
of my position. He's a married man—at least he was a
married man then—and some people would have
twisted the whole business into something very
unpleasant for me, I'm sure. So I think, knowing him
well, that he very likely didn't want to give me away.
He knew he'd had nothing to do with the murders, and
I expect he imagined that the real murderer would be
detected without his having to give any precise account
of his doings on that night. If I'd known that he was
running the risk of arrest, of course, I'd have insisted
on his telling what really happened; but I've been
out of town and I'd no idea things had got to this
pitch.”</p>

<p>Flamborough intervened as she paused for a moment.</p>

<p>“Your maid was away that night? Then you've got
no one else who could give evidence that Dr.
Silverdale was with you during that crucial period?”</p>

<p>Avice seemed to see a fresh gulf opening before her.</p>

<p>“No,” she admitted, with a faint tremor in her voice.
“We were quite alone. No one saw us go into the house
and no one saw him leave it.”</p>

<p>“H'm!” said Flamborough. “Then it rests on your
own evidence entirely? There's no confirmation of it?”</p>

<p>“What confirmation do you need?” Avice demanded.
“Dr. Silverdale will tell you the same story.
Surely that's sufficient?”</p>

<p>Before Flamborough could make any comment on
this, Sir Clinton turned the interview back to its original
subject.</p>

<p>“I should like to be clear about the other matter first,
if you please, Miss Deepcar. With regard to this police
raid on your house, as you called it, can you tell me
something more about it? For instance, you say that I
produced my card. Was that card preserved?”</p>

<p>“No,” Avice admitted. “My maid tells me that
you only showed it to her; you didn't actually hand
it over to her.”</p>

<p>“Then anybody might have presented it?”</p>

<p>“No,” Avice contradicted him. “My maid recognised
you. She'd seen your photograph in a newspaper
once, some months ago, and she knew you from that.”</p>

<p>“Ah! Indeed! Can you produce this maid? She's
not out of town at present or anything like that?”</p>

<p>“I can produce her in a few moments,” Avice
retorted with obvious assurance. “She's waiting for me
somewhere in this building at the present time.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced at Flamborough and the Inspector
retired from the room. In a very short time he
returned, bringing with him a middle-aged woman, who
glanced inquisitively at Sir Clinton as she entered.</p>

<p>“Now, Marple,” Avice Deepcar demanded, “do
you recognise anyone here?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Marple had no hesitation in the matter.</p>

<p>“That's Sir Clinton Driffield, Miss. I know his face
quite well.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's suspicion that his superior had been
moving in the background of the case were completely
confirmed by this evidence; but he was still further
surprised to catch a gleam of sardonic amusement
passing across the face of the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“You recognise me, it seems?” he said, as though
half in doubt as to what line to take. “You won't mind
my testing your memory a little? Well, then, what kind
of suit was I wearing when I came to your house?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Marple considered carefully for a moment or
two before replying:</p>

<p>“An ordinary suit, sir; a dark one rather like the
one you've got on just now.”</p>

<p>“You can't recall the colour?”</p>

<p>“It was a dark suit, that's all I can remember. You
came in the evening, sir, and the light isn't good for
colours.”</p>

<p>“You didn't notice my tie, or anything like that?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. You'll remember that I was put about at
the time. You gave me a shock, coming down on me
like that. It's the first time I ever had to do with the
police, sir; and I was all on my nerves’ edge with the
idea that you'd come after Miss Avice, sir. I couldn't
hardly get to believe it, and I was all in a twitter.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded sympathetically.</p>

<p>“I'm sorry you were so much disturbed. Now have
a good look at me where the light's bright enough. Do
you see anything that strikes you as different from the
appearance I had that night?”</p>

<p>He moved across to the window and stood patiently
while Mrs. Marple scanned him up and down
deliberately.</p>

<p>“You haven't got your eyeglass on to-day, sir.”</p>

<p>“Ah! Did you say eyeglass or eyeglasses?”</p>

<p>“Eyeglass, sir. I remember you dropped it out of
your eye when you began to read Miss Avice's letters.”</p>

<p>“Apart from the eyeglass, then, I'm much the same?”</p>

<p>“You've got quit of your cold now, sir. You were
quite hoarse that night you came to the house—as if
you'd got a touch of sore throat or something like that.”</p>

<p>“That's true. I've no cold now. Anything more?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Marple subjected him to another prolonged
scrutiny.</p>

<p>“No, sir. You're just like you were that night.”</p>

<p>“And you recognised me from some newspaper
portrait, it seems?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. I saw your picture in the evening paper
once. It was just a head-and-shoulders one; but I'd
have recognised you from it even if you hadn't shown
me your card.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton reflected for a moment.</p>

<p>“Can you remember what was on that card?” he
asked.</p>

<p>Mrs. Marple consulted her memory.</p>

<p>“It said: ‘Sir Clinton Driffield (and some letters
after the name), Chief Constable.’ Then in the
left-hand corner was the address: ‘Police Headquarters,
Westerhaven.’ ”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton caught Flamborough's eye and they
exchanged glances. The Inspector had little difficulty in
seeing that his first impression had been wrong. It was
not the Chief Constable who had ransacked Avice
Deepcar's house.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took out his card-case and handed a card
to Mrs. Marple.</p>

<p>“It wasn't that card I showed you, was it?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Marple scanned the card for a moment.</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir. This one reads quite different.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded and took back the card.</p>

<p>“I think that's really all I want to know, Mrs.
Marple. Perhaps Inspector Flamborough may want
to ask you a question or two later on.”</p>

<p>Avice Deepcar seemed by no means satisfied at this
close to the interview.</p>

<p>“That's all very fine, Sir Clinton,” she said, “but
you seem to think you've satisfied me. You haven't.
You can't invade my house in this way and then pass
the whole thing off as if it were part of your routine.
And you can't carry away a pile of my private letters
and keep them without my consent. I insist on having
them back. If you don't, I'll see my solicitor at once
about the matter. And may I remind you again that
you owe me some apology for your proceedings?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed in no way ruffled.</p>

<p>“Of course I apologise for anything I've done which
may have inconvenienced you, Miss Deepcar. I'm
quite sincere in saying that I very much regret that you
should have been worried in this way. Nothing that I
have done has been meant to throw any suspicion on
you, I can assure you. As to the letters, I think your best
plan will be to consult your solicitor as you suggest. Ask
him to ring me up at once, and I'll try to settle the
matter as soon as we can. I've no wish to cause you any
trouble—none whatever.”</p>

<p>Avice glanced suspiciously from him to the Inspector.
It was evident that this solution did not satisfy her;
but obviously she realised that nothing would be gained
by attempting to argue the point.</p>

<p>“Very well,” she said at last, “I'll go straight to my
solicitor now. You'll hear from him very shortly.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton held the door open for her and she passed
out of the room, followed by Mrs. Marple. After a few
seconds, the Chief Constable turned to Flamborough.</p>

<p>“What do you make of it all, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, that Mrs. Marple seems to me honest
enough, but not very bright.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded in assent.</p>

<p>“She recognised her visitor from his resemblance
to some blurred newspaper portrait; and she
recognised me from my resemblance to her visitor. That's
your idea?”</p>

<p>“It looks like it. I never saw you wearing a single
eyeglass, sir. And it occurs to me that a single eyeglass
helps to change the normal expression of a face owing
to the wrinkling that you make in holding it in your
eye. Also if it's an unfamiliar thing, one would drop
it when one began to read documents, so as not to be
hampered by it.”</p>

<p>“True. I suppose that satisfies you—along with the
faked visiting-card which was meant to impress her
with the fact that a high official had descended on
her—that I personally wasn't mixed up in the business. I've
the best of reasons for knowing that myself, of course,
since I know I was elsewhere at the time. But what do
you make of the raid?”</p>

<p>“Documents were what the man was after, obviously,
sir.”</p>

<p>“It seems clear enough that he expected to get hold
of something compromising amongst her correspondence.
If you ask me, Inspector, Mr. Justice doesn't
seem to stick at much in his self-appointed task.”</p>

<p>“I was pretty sure it was some of his work, sir. The
Deepcar girl and Silverdale had a common interest in
getting Mrs. Silverdale out of the way; there's no
doubt about that. And some people are perfect fools
in what they put down on paper. It's quite on the
cards that Mr. Justice thought he might find
something useful amongst Silverdale's letters to Avice
Deepcar.”</p>

<p>“He evidently found something which he thought
worth taking away, at any rate,” Sir Clinton pointed
out. “I had a notion that once you arrested Silverdale,
things would begin to move faster. If Mr. Justice has
got hold of any evidence, it'll be in our hands before
long, I'm prepared to bet.”</p>

<p>“He's saving us some trouble, if there <em>is</em> anything in
writing,” the Inspector said, with a grin. “We would
hardly have raided the Deepcar house on such a long
chance as that; and he's done the job for us.”</p>

<p>“A most useful and altruistic person, evidently,” Sir
Clinton commented ironically. “Now what about the
rest of the affair, Inspector? If you accept Miss
Deepcar's evidence, then the bottom's out of your case
against Silverdale. He couldn't be with her and at the
bungalow simultaneously.”</p>

<p>“Why should we accept her evidence at all?”
Flamborough demanded crossly. “She had as much
interest in getting Mrs. Silverdale out of the way as
Silverdale himself had. Their interests are absolutely at
one in the affair. It's more than an even chance that she
was his accomplice in the business—standing ready with
this tale of hers to prove an alibi for him. I don't reckon
her statement was worth that!”</p>

<p>He snapped his fingers contemptuously.</p>

<p>“There's something else, sir,” he continued. “This
Mrs. Marple wasn't at the house that night. What
evidence is there that Silverdale and the Deepcar girl
ever went home at all after they'd dined down town?
There's no corroboration of that story. Why not assume
that the Deepcar girl was an actual accomplice on the
spot? She and Silverdale may have driven out to the
bungalow after dinner, and she may have stood at the
window during the whole affair. There's nothing
against that, if you discount her story. My reading of
the Deepcar girl is that she may be surface-shy, so to
speak, but she's got good strong fibre in her character
underneath. Look how she faced up to you not ten
minutes ago. Not much shyness about that.”</p>

<p>“I think I'd have been a bit stirred up myself,
Inspector, if you came along in my absence and pawed
over all my private possessions. One isn't necessarily a
scoundrel if one turns peevish over a thing of that sort.”</p>

<p>The Inspector let the point pass.</p>

<p>“Have you any notion who this Mr. Justice can be,
sir?”</p>

<p>“I've a pretty fair notion, but it's only a notion. Who
stands to profit by the affair?”</p>

<p>Some recollection seemed to cross the Inspector's
mind.</p>

<p>“Spratton, of course, sir. And now I come to think
of it, if you shaved off your moustache, he's very like
you in face and build. If Spratton's going to collect his
insurance on young Hassendean, then murder's got to
be proved.”</p>

<p>“Well,” said Sir Clinton lightly. “I trust Mr.
Spratton will get what he deserves in the matter.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XVI. <br/> Written Evidence</h2>

<p>Inspector Flamborough had to wait a couple of days
before his unknown ally, Justice, made any further
move. It so happened that Sir Clinton was not at
headquarters when the post brought the expected
communication; and the Inspector had plenty of time to consider
the fresh evidence, unbiased by his superior's
comments. As soon as the Chief Constable reappeared,
Flamborough went to him to display the latest
document in the case.</p>

<p>“This came by the midday post, sir,” he explained,
laying some papers on the table. “It's Mr. Justice again.
The results of his raid on the Deepcar house, it seems.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton picked up the packet and opened out the
papers. Some photographic prints attracted his
attention, but he laid them aside and turned first to a plain
sheet of paper on which the now familiar letters from
telegraph forms had been gummed. With some
deliberation he read the message.</p>

<blockquote class="message"><div>

  <p>“I enclose photographs of part of the correspondence
  which has recently taken place between Dr.
  Silverdale and Miss Deepcar.</p>

  <p class="sig">“Justice.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Sir Clinton gazed at the sheet for a moment or two, as
though considering some matter unconnected with the
message. At last he turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“I suppose you've tried this thing for finger-prints?
No good, eh? I can still smell a faint whiff of rubber
from it—off his gloves, I suppose.”</p>

<p>Flamborough shook his head in agreement with Sir
Clinton's surmise.</p>

<p>“Nothing on it whatever, sir,” he confirmed.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable laid down the sheet of paper and
took up one of the photographs. It was of ordinary
half-plate size and showed a slightly reduced copy of one
page of a letter.</p>

<blockquote class="message"><div>

  that things cannot go on any <br/>
  longer in this way. <br/>

  <p>The plan we talked over last <br/>
  seems the best. When I have given <br/>
  Hassendean hints about the use of <br/>
  hyoscine, he will probably see for <br/>
  himself how to get what he wants. <br/>
  After that, it merely means watching <br/>
  them, and I am sure that we shall soon <br/>
  have her out of our way. It will be <br/>
  very easy to make it seem intentional <br/>
  on their part; and no one is likely <br/>
  to look further than that.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Flamborough watched the Chief Constable's face as
he read the message, and as soon as he saw that Sir
Clinton had completed his perusal of it, the Inspector
put in his word.</p>

<p>“I've checked the writing, sir. It's Silverdale's
beyond any doubt.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable nodded rather absent-mindedly
and took up another of the prints. This showed a
largely-magnified reproduction of the first two lines of
the document; and for a minute or so Sir Clinton
subjected the print to a minute scrutiny with a magnifying
glass.</p>

<p>“It's an original, right enough,” Flamborough
ventured to comment at last. “Mr. Justice has been very
thorough, and he's given us quite enough to prove that
it isn't a forgery. You can see there's no sign of erasing
or scraping of any sort on the paper of the original; and
the magnification's big enough to show up anything of
that sort.”</p>

<p>“That's true,” Sir Clinton admitted. “And so far as
one can see, the lines of the writing are normal. There
are none of those halts-in-the-wrong-place that a
forger makes if he traces a manuscript. The magnification's
quite big enough to show up anything of that sort.
I guess you're right, Inspector, it's a photograph of part
of a real document in Silverdale's own handwriting.”</p>

<p>“The rest of the things make that clear enough,”
Flamborough said, indicating several other prints which
showed microphotographic reproductions of a number
of other details of the document. “There's no doubt
whatever that these are all genuine bits of Silverdale's
handwriting. There's been no faking of the paper or
anything like that.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton continued his study of the photographs,
evidently with keen interest; but at last he put all the
prints on his desk and turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Well, what do you make of it?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“It seems clear enough to me,” Flamborough
answered. “Look at the contents of that page as a whole.
It's as plain as one could wish. Silverdale and the
Deepcar girl have had enough of waiting. Things can't
go on any longer in this way. They've been discussing
various ways of getting rid of Mrs. Silverdale. ‘The plan
we talked over last seems the best.’ That's the final
decision, evidently. Then you get a notion of what the
plan was. Silverdale was going to prime Hassendean
with information about hyoscine, and practically egg
him on to drug Mrs. Silverdale so as to get her into his
power. Then when the trap was ready, Silverdale and
the Deepcar girl were to be on the alert to take advantage
of the situation. And the last sentence makes it clear
enough that they meant to go the length of murder and
cover it up by making it look like a suicide-pact
between young Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale. That's
how I read it, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton did not immediately endorse this opinion.
Instead, he picked up the full copy of the manuscript
page and studied it afresh as though searching for
something in particular. At last he appeared to be
satisfied; and he slid the photograph across the desk to
the Inspector.</p>

<p>“I don't wish to bias you, Inspector, so I won't
describe what I see myself. But will you examine the
word ‘probably’ in that text and tell me if anything
whatever about it strikes you as peculiar—anything
whatever, remember.”</p>

<p>Flamborough studied the place indicated, first
with his naked eye and then with the magnifying
glass.</p>

<p>“There's no sign of any tampering with the paper
that I can see, sir. The surface is intact and the ink lines
run absolutely freely, without the halts and shakes one
would expect in a forgery. The only thing I do notice
is that the word looks just a trifle cramped.”</p>

<p>“That's what I wanted. Note that it's in the middle of
a line, Inspector. Now look at the word ‘shall’ in the
fifth line from the bottom of the page.”</p>

<p>“One might say it was a trifle cramped too,”
Flamborough admitted.</p>

<p>“And the ‘it’ in the third line from the foot?”</p>

<p>“It looks like the same thing.”</p>

<p>Flamborough relapsed into silence and studied the
photograph word by word while Sir Clinton waited
patiently.</p>

<p>“The word ‘the’ in the phrase ‘about the use of
hyoscine’ seems cramped too; and the ‘to’ at the
start of the last line suffers in the same way. It's so slight
in all these cases that one wouldn't notice it normally.
I didn't see it till you pointed it out. But if you're going
to suggest that there's been any erasing and writing in
fresh words to fit the blank space, I'll have to disagree
with you, sir. I simply don't believe there's been any
thing of the sort.”</p>

<p>“I shan't differ from you over that,” Sir Clinton
assured him blandly. “Now let's think of something
else for a change. Did it never occur to you, Inspector,
how much the English language depends on the relative
positions of words? If I say: ‘It struck you,’ that means
something quite different from: ‘You struck it.’ And
yet each sentence contains exactly the same words.”</p>

<p>“That's plain enough,” Flamborough admitted,
“though I never thought of it in that way. And,” he
added in a dubious tone, “I don't see what it's got to
do with the case, either.”</p>

<p>“That's a pity,” Sir Clinton observed with a
sympathy which hardly sounded genuine. “Suppose we
think it over together. Where does one usually cramp
words a trifle when one is writing?”</p>

<p>“At the end of a line,” Flamborough suggested.
“But these crampings seem to be all in the middle of
the lines of that letter.”</p>

<p>“That's what seems to me interesting about them,”
Sir Clinton explained drily. “And somehow it seems
to associate itself in my mind with the fact that Mr.
Justice hasn't supplied us with the original document,
but has gone to all the trouble of taking photographs of
it.”</p>

<p>“I wondered at that, myself,” the Inspector
confessed. “It seems a bit futile, true enough.”</p>

<p>“Try a fresh line, Inspector. We learned on fairly
good authority that Mr. Justice took away a number of
letters from Miss Deepcar's house. And yet he only
sends us a single page out of the lot. If the rest were
important, why doesn't he send them. If they aren't
important, why did he take them away?”</p>

<p>“He may be holding them up for use later on, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“My reading of the business is different. I think this
is Mr. Justice's last reserve. He's throwing his last forces
into the battle now.”</p>

<p>“There seems to be something behind all this,”
Flamborough admitted, passing his hand over his hair
as though to stimulate his brain by the action, “but I
can't just fit it all together as you seem to have done,
sir. You can say what you like, but that handwriting's
genuine; the paper's not been tampered with; and I
can't see anything wrong with it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took pity on the inspector's obvious
anxiety.</p>

<p>“Look at the phrasing of the whole document, Inspector.
If you cared to do so, you could split it up into a
set of phrases something after this style: ‘that things
cannot go on any longer in this way. . . . The plan we
talked over last seems the best. . . . When I have given . . .
Hassendean . . . hints . . . about the . . . use of . . .
hyoscine . . . he will probably see for himself how . . . to
get what he wants. . . . After that, it merely means . . .
watching them . . . and I am sure that . . . we shall soon
have . . . her . . . out of our way. . . . It will be very easy . . .
to make it seem . . . intentional . . . on their part . . .
and no one is likely . . . to look further than that.’ Now,
Inspector, if you met any one of these phrases by itself,
would you infer from it inevitably that a murder was
being planned? ‘Things cannot go on any longer in
this way.’ If you consider how Mrs. Silverdale was
behaving with young Hassendean, it's not astonishing
to find a phrase like that in a letter from Silverdale to
the girl he was in love with. ‘The plan we talked over
last seems the best.’ It might have been a day's outing
together that he was talking about for all one can tell.
‘He will probably see for himself how my wife is
playing with him.’ And so forth.”</p>

<p>“Yes, that's all very well,” Flamborough put in,
“but what about the word ‘hyoscine?’ That's
unusual in love-letters.”</p>

<p>“Miss Deepcar was working on hyoscine under
Silverdale's directions, remember. It's quite possible
that he might have mentioned it incidentally.”</p>

<p>“Now I think I see what you mean, sir. You think
that this document that Mr. Justice has sent us is a
patchwork—bits cut out of a lot of different letters and
stuck together and then photographed?”</p>

<p>“I'm suggesting it as a possibility, Inspector. See
how it fits the facts. Here are a set of phrases, each one
innocuous in itself, but with a cumulative effect of
suggestion when you string them together as in this
document. If the thing is a patchwork, then a number of
real letters must have been used in order to get
fragments which would suit. So Mr. Justice took a fair
selection of epistles with him when he raided Miss
Deepcar's house. Further, in snipping out a sentence
here and there from these letters, he sometimes had to
include a phrase running on from one line to another
in the original letter; but when he came to paste his
fragments together, the original hiatus at the end of a
line got transferred to the middle of a line in the final
arrangement made to fit the page of the faked letter.
That's what struck me to begin with. For example,
suppose that in the original letter you had the phrase:
‘he will probably see for himself how’; and the original
line ended with ‘probably.’ That word might be a bit
cramped at the end of the line. But in reconstructing
the thing, ‘probably’ got into the middle of the line,
and so you get this apparently meaningless cramping
of the word when there was space enough for it to be
written uncramped under normal conditions. Just the
same with the other cases you spotted for yourself.
They represent the ends of lines in the original letters,
although they all occur in the middle of lines in the
fake production.”</p>

<p>“That sounds just as plausible as you like, sir. But
you've got the knack of making things sound plausible.
You're not pulling my leg, are you?” the Inspector
demanded suspiciously. “Besides, what about there
being no sign of the paper having been tampered
with?”</p>

<p>“Look at what he's given us,” Sir Clinton suggested.
“The only case where he's given a large-scale
reproduction of a whole phrase is at the top of the letter:
‘Things cannot go on any longer in this way.’ That's
been complete in the original, and he gives you a
large-scale copy of it showing that the texture of the paper
is intact. Of course it is, since he cut the whole bit out
of the letter <i lang="fr">en bloc</i>. When it comes to the microphotographs,
of course he only shows you small bits of the
words and so there's no sign of the cutting that was
needed at the end of each fragment. And in the photograph
of the full text, there's no attempt to show you
fine details. He simply pasted the fragments in their
proper order on to a real sheet of note-paper, filled up
the joins with Chinese White to hide the solutions of
continuity, and used a process plate which wouldn't
show the slight differences in the shades of the whites
where the Chinese White overlay the white of the
note-paper. If you have a drawing to make for black-and-white
reproduction in a book, you can mess about with
Chinese White as much as you like, and it won't show
up in the final result at all.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, with a gesture, admitted the
plausibility of Sir Clinton's hypothesis.</p>

<p>“And you think that explains why he didn't send
us the original document, sir?”</p>

<p>“Since I'm sure he hadn't an original to send, it's
hard to see how he could have sent it, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Flamborough did not contest this reading of the case.
Instead, he passed to a fresh aspect of the subject.</p>

<p>“Mr. Justice is evidently ready to go any length to
avenge somebody—and that somebody can hardly have
been young Hassendean, judging from what we've
heard about his character.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused the gambit offered by the
Inspector.</p>

<p>“Mr. Justice is a very able person,” he observed,
“even though he does make a mistake now and again,
as in this last move.”</p>

<p>“You said you'd some idea who he was, sir?”
Flamborough said with an interrogative note in his voice.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable showed no desire to be drawn.
He glanced rather quizzically at his subordinate for a
moment before speaking.</p>

<p>“I'll give you the points which strike me in that
connection, Inspector; and then you'll be just as well
placed as I am myself in the matter of Mr. Justice. First
of all, if you compare the time of publication of the
morning newspapers with the time, at which Mr. Justice's
telegram was collected from the pillar-box, I think
it's fairly evident that he didn't depend on the journalists
for his first information about the affair. Even the
Ivy Lodge news wasn't printed until after he had
despatched his message.”</p>

<p>“That's true, sir,” Flamborough admitted.</p>

<p>His manner showed that he expected a good deal
more than this tittle of information.</p>

<p>“Therefore he must have had some direct information
about the bungalow business. Either he was on
the spot when the affair occurred, or else he was told
about it almost immediately by someone who was on
the spot.”</p>

<p>“Admitted,” the inspector confirmed.</p>

<p>“Then he obviously—or is it ‘she obviously,’
Inspector?—saw the importance of hyoscine as a clue as
soon as any word about it got into the newspapers.
Immediately, in comes the code advertisement, giving
us—rather unnecessarily I think—the tip to inquire at
the Croft-Thornton Institute.”</p>

<p>Flamborough's face showed that he felt Sir Clinton
was merely recapitulating very obvious pieces of
evidence.</p>

<p>“Then there was the writing on the advertisements
which he sent to the papers—Mrs. Silverdale's writing
rather neatly forged, if you remember.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said the Inspector, showing by his tone that
at this point he was rather at sea.</p>

<p>“Then there was the fact that he managed to choose
his time most conveniently for his raid on Miss
Deepcar's house.”</p>

<p>“You mean he made his visit when only the maid
was at home, sir?”</p>

<p>“Precisely. I rather admire his forethought all
through the business. But there's more in it than that,
if you think it over, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, if your reading's correct, he wanted some
of Silverdale's letters to serve as a basis for these
photographs.”</p>

<p>“Something even more obvious than that, Inspector.
Now, with all that evidence in front of you, can't you
build up some sort of picture of Mr. Justice? You ought
to be able to come fairly near it, I think.”</p>

<p>“Somebody fairly in the swim with the Silverdale
crowd, at any rate. I can see that. And someone who
knew the Croft-Thornton by hearsay, at any rate. Is
that what you mean, sir?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton betrayed nothing in his expression,
though the Inspector scrutinised his face carefully; but
he added something which Flamborough had not
expected.</p>

<p>“Final points. The date on the fragment of an
envelope that I found in the drawer in Mrs. Silverdale's
room was 1925. The date inside that signet-ring on her
finger was 5–11–25. And there was the initial ‘B’
engraved alongside the date.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough quite obviously failed to see
the relevancy of these details. His face showed it in the
most apparent way.</p>

<p>“I don't see what you're getting at there, sir,” he
said rather shamefacedly. “These things never struck
me; and even now I don't see what they've got to do
with Mr. Justice.”</p>

<p>If he expected to gain anything by this frank confession,
he was disappointed. Sir Clinton had evidently
no desire to save his subordinate the trouble of thinking,
and his next remark left Flamborough even deeper in
bewilderment.</p>

<p>“Ever read anything by Dean Swift, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“I read <i>Gulliver's Travels</i> when I was a kid, sir,”
Flamborough admitted, with the air of deprecating
any investigation into his literary tastes.</p>

<p>“You might read his <i>Journal to Stella</i> some time. But
I guess you'd find it dull. It's a reprint of his letters to
Esther Johnson. He called her ‘Stella,’ and it's full of
queer abbreviations and phrases like ‘Night, dear MD.
Love Pdfr.’ It teems with that sort of stuff. Curious to
see the human side of a man like Swift, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“In love with her, you mean, sir?”</p>

<p>“Well, it sounds like it,” Sir Clinton replied
cautiously. “However, we needn't worry over Swift. Let's
see if we can't do something with this case, for a
change.”</p>

<p>He glanced at his watch.</p>

<p>“Half-past five. We may be able to get hold of
her.”</p>

<p>He picked up the telephone from his desk and asked
for a number while Flamborough waited with interest
to hear the result.</p>

<p>“Is that the Croft-Thornton Institute?” Sir
Clinton demanded at length. “Sir Clinton Driffield
speaking. Can you ask Miss Hailsham to come to the
telephone?”</p>

<p>There was a pause before he spoke once more.</p>

<p>“Miss Hailsham? I'm sorry to trouble you, but can
you tell me if there's a microphotographic camera in
the Institute? I'd like to know.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, all ears, waited for the next bit of the
one-sided conversation which was reaching him.</p>

<p>“You have two of them? Then I suppose I might
be able to get permission to use one of them, perhaps,
if we need it. . . . Thanks, indeed. By the way, I suppose
you're just leaving the Institute now. . . . I thought
so. Very lucky I didn't miss you by a minute or two.
I mustn't detain you. Thanks again. Good-bye.”</p>

<p>He put down the telephone and turned to
Flamborough.</p>

<p>“You might ask Miss Morcott to come here,
Inspector.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, completely puzzled by this move,
opened the door of the adjoining room and summoned
Sir Clinton's typist.</p>

<p>“I want you to telephone for me, Miss Morcott,”
the Chief Constable explained. “Ring up Dr. Trevor
Markfield at his house. When you get through, say to
his housekeeper: ‘Miss Hailsham speaking. Please tell
Dr. Markfield that I wish to see him to-night and that
I shall come round to his house at nine o’clock.’ Don't
say any more than that, and get disconnected before
there's any chance of explanations.”</p>

<p>Miss Morcott carried out Sir Clinton's orders carefully
and then went back to her typing. As soon as the
door closed behind her, the Inspector's suppressed
curiosity got the better of him.</p>

<p>“I don't quite understand all that, sir. I suppose you
asked about the photomicrographic affair just to see if
these prints could have been made at the
Croft-Thornton?”</p>

<p>“I hadn't much doubt on that point. Photomicrographic
apparatus isn't common among amateur photographers,
but it's common enough in scientific institutes.
No, I was really killing two birds with one stone:
finding out about the micro-camera and making sure that
Miss Hailsham was leaving the place for the night and
wouldn't have a chance to speak to Markfield before
she went.”</p>

<p>“And what about her calling on Markfield to-night,
sir?”</p>

<p>“She'll have to do it by proxy, I'm afraid. We'll
represent her, however inefficiently, Inspector. The
point is that I wanted to be sure that Markfield would
be at home when we called; and I wished to avoid
making an appointment in my own name lest it should
put him too much on his guard. The time's come when
we'll have to persuade Dr. Markfield to be a bit franker
than he's been, hitherto. I think I see my way to
getting out of him most of what he knows; and if I can
succeed in that, then we ought to have all the evidence
we need.”</p>

<p>He paused, as though not very sure about something.</p>

<p>“He's been bluffing us all along the line up to the
present, Inspector. It's a game two can play at; and
you'll be good enough to turn a deaf ear occasionally
if I'm tempted out of the straight path. And whatever
happens, don't look over-surprised at anything I may
say. If you can contrive to look thoroughly stupid, it
won't do any harm.”</p>

<h2>Chapter XVII. <br/> Mr. Justice</h2>

<p>Just before entering the road in which Markfield
lived, Sir Clinton drew up his car; and as he did so, a
constable in plain clothes stepped forward.</p>

<p>“Dr. Markfield's in his house, sir,” he announced.
“He came home just before dinner-time.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded, let in his clutch, and drove
round the corner to Markfield's gate. As he stopped his
engine, he glanced at the house-front.</p>

<p>“Note that his garage is built into the house,
Inspector,” he pointed out. “That seems of interest, if
there's a door from the house direct into the garage,
I think.”</p>

<p>They walked up the short approach and rang the bell.
In a few moments the door was opened by Markfield's
housekeeper. Rather to her surprise, Sir Clinton
inquired about the health of her relation whom she had
been nursing.</p>

<p>“Oh, she's all right again, sir, thank you. I got back
yesterday.”</p>

<p>She paused a moment as though in doubt, then
added:</p>

<p>“I'm not sure if Dr. Markfield is free this evening, sir.
He's expecting a visitor.”</p>

<p>“We shan't detain him if his visitor arrives,” Sir
Clinton assured her, his manner leaving no doubt in her
mind as to the advisability of his own admission.</p>

<p>The housekeeper ushered them into Markfield's
sitting-room, where they found him by the fire, deep in
a book. At the sound of Sir Clinton's name he looked
up with a glance which betrayed his annoyance at being
disturbed.</p>

<p>“I'm rather at a loss to understand this visit,” he
said stiffly, as they came into the room.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused to notice the obviously grudging
tone of his reception.</p>

<p>“We merely wish to have a few minutes’ talk, Dr.
Markfield,” he explained pleasantly. “Some information
has come into my hands which needs confirmation,
and I think you'll be able to help us.”</p>

<p>Markfield glanced at the clock.</p>

<p>“I'm in the middle of an experiment,” he said
gruffly. “I've got to run it through, now that it's
started. If you're going to be long. I'd better bring the
things in here and then I can oversee it while I'm
talking to you.”</p>

<p>Without waiting for permission, he left the room and
came back in a couple of minutes with a tray on which
stood some apparatus. Flamborough noticed a conical
flask containing some limpid liquid, and a stoppered
bottle. Markfield clamped a dropping funnel, also
containing a clear liquid, so that its spout entered the
conical flask; and by turning the tap of the funnel
slightly, he allowed a little of the contents to flow down
into the flask.</p>

<p>“I hope the smell doesn't trouble you,” he said, in a
tone of sour apology. “It's the triethylamine I'm
mixing with the tetranitromethane in the flask. Rather
a fishy stink it has.”</p>

<p>He arranged the apparatus on the table so that he
could reach the tap conveniently without rising from
his chair; then, after admitting a little more of the
liquid from the funnel into the flask, he seated himself
once more and gave Sir Clinton his attention.</p>

<p>“What is it you want to know?” he demanded
abruptly.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused to be hurried. Putting his hand
into his breast-pocket, he drew out some sheets of
typewriting which he placed on the table before him, as
though for future reference. Then he turned to his host.</p>

<p>“Some time ago, a man Peter Whalley came to us
and made a statement, Dr. Markfield.”</p>

<p>Markfield's face betrayed some surprise.</p>

<p>“Whalley?” he asked. “Do you mean the man who
was murdered on the Lizardbridge Road?”</p>

<p>“He was murdered, certainly,” Sir Clinton confirmed.
“But as I said, he made a statement to us. I'm
not very clear about some points, and I think you might
be able to fill in one or two of the gaps.”</p>

<p>Markfield's face showed a quick flash of suspicion.</p>

<p>“I'm not very sure what you mean,” he said, doubtfully,
“If you're trying to trap me into saying things that
might go against Silverdale, I may as well tell you I've
no desire to give evidence against him. I'm sure he's
innocent; and I don't wish to say anything to give you
a handle against him. That's frank enough, isn't it?”</p>

<p>“If it relieves your mind, I may as well say I agree
with you on that point, Dr. Markfield. So there's no
reason why you shouldn't give us your help.”</p>

<p>Markfield seemed slightly taken aback by this, but he
did his best to hide his feelings.</p>

<p>“Go on, then,” he said. “What is it you want?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton half-opened the paper on the table, then
took away his hand as though he needed no notes at the
moment.</p>

<p>“It appears that on the night of the affair at the
bungalow, when Mrs. Silverdale met her death, Peter
Whalley was walking along the Lizardbridge Road,
coming towards town,” Sir Clinton began. “It was a
foggy night, you remember. He'd just passed the
bungalow gate when he noticed, ahead of him, the headlights
of a car standing by the roadside; and he appears
to have heard voices.”</p>

<p>The Inspector listened to this with all his ears. Where
had Sir Clinton fished up this fresh stock of information,
evidently of crucial importance? Then a recollection of
the Chief Constable's warning flashed through his mind
and he schooled his features into a mask of impassivity.
A glance at Markfield showed that the chemist, though
outwardly uninterested, was missing no detail of the
story.</p>

<p>“It seems,” Sir Clinton went on, “that the late Mr.
Whalley came up to the car and found a man and a girl
in the front seat. The girl seemed to be in an abnormal
state; and Mr. Whalley, from his limited experience,
inferred that she was intoxicated. The man, Whalley
thought, had stopped the car to straighten her in the
seat and make her look less conspicuous; but as soon as
Whalley appeared out of the night, the man started the
car again and drove slowly past him towards the
bungalow.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton mechanically smoothed out his papers,
glanced at them, and then continued:</p>

<p>“The police can't always choose their instruments,
Dr. Markfield. We have to take witnesses where we can
get them. Frankly, then, the late Mr. Whalley was not
an admirable character—far from it. He'd come upon
a man and a girl alone in a car, and the girl was
apparently not in a fit state to look after herself. An
affair of this sort would bring two ideas into Mr.
Whalley's mind. Clothing them in vulgar language,
they'd be: ‘Here's a bit o’ fun, my word!’ and ‘What
is there in it for me?’ He had a foible for trading on the
weaknesses of his fellow-creatures, you understand?”</p>

<p>Markfield nodded grimly, but made no audible
comment.</p>

<p>“The late Mr. Whalley, then, stared after the car;
and, to his joy, no doubt, he saw it turn in at the gate of
the bungalow. He guessed the place was empty, since
there hadn't been a light showing in it when he passed
it a minute or two before. Not much need to analyse
Mr. Whalley's ideas in detail, is there? He made up his
mind that a situation of this sort promised him some fun
after his own heart, quite apart from any little financial
pickings he might make out of it later on, if he were
lucky. So he made his best pace after the car.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned over a page of the notes before
him and, glancing at the document, knitted his brows
slightly.</p>

<p>“The late Mr. Whalley wasn't a perfect witness of
course, and I'm inclined to think that at this point I
can supply a missing detail in the story. A second car
came on the scene round about this period—a car
driving in towards town—and it must have met the
car with the man and the girl in it just about this time.
But that's not in Mr. Whalley's statement. It's only a
surmise of my own, and not really essential.”</p>

<p>Inspector Flamborough had been growing more and
more puzzled as this narrative unfolded. He could not
imagine how the Chief Constable had accumulated all
this information. Suddenly the explanation crossed his
mind.</p>

<p>“Lord! He's bluffing! He's trying to persuade
Markfield that we know all about it already. These are
just inferences of his; and he's put the double bluff
on Markfield by pretending that Whalley's statement
wasn't quite full and that he's filling the gap with a
guess of his own. What a nerve!” he commented to
himself.</p>

<p>“By the time the late Mr. Whalley reached the
bungalow gate,” Sir Clinton pursued, “the man had
got the girl out of the car and both of them had
gone into the house. Mr. Whalley, it seems, went
gingerly up the approach, and, as he did so, a light went
on in one of the front rooms of the bungalow. The
curtains were drawn. The late Mr. Whalley, with an eye
to future profit, took the precaution of noting the
number of the motor, which was standing at the front
door.”</p>

<p>Flamborough glanced at Markfield to see what effect
Sir Clinton was producing. To his surprise, the chemist
seemed in no way perturbed. With a gesture as though
asking permission, he leaned over and ran a little of the
liquid from the funnel into the flask, shook the mixture
gently for a moment or two, and then turned back to
Sir Clinton. The Inspector, watching keenly, could see
no tremor in his hand as he carried out the operations.</p>

<p>“The late Mr. Whalley,” Sir Clinton continued,
when Markfield had finished his work. “The late Mr.
Whalley did not care about hanging round the front
of the bungalow. If he stood in front of the lighted
window, anyone passing on the road would be able to
see him outlined against the glare; and that might
have led to difficulties. So he passed round to the
second window of the same room, which looked out
on the side of the bungalow and was therefore not so
conspicuous from the road. Just as he turned the corner
of the building, he heard a second car stop at the gate.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton paused here, as though undecided about
the next part of his narrative. He glanced at Markfield,
apparently to see whether he was paying attention;
then he proceeded.</p>

<p>“The late Mr. Whalley tip-toed along to this
side-window of the lighted room, and, much to his delight,
I've no doubt, he found that the curtains had been
carelessly drawn, so that a chink was left between them
through which he could peep into the room. He stepped
on to the flower-bed, bent down, and peered through
the aperture. I hope I make myself clear, Dr.
Markfield?”</p>

<p>“Quite,” said Markfield curtly.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded in acknowledgment, glanced
once more at his papers as though to refresh his
memory, and continued:</p>

<p>“What he saw was this. The girl was lying in an
arm-chair near the fireplace. The late Mr. Whalley, again
misled by his limited experience, thought she'd fallen
asleep—the effects of alcohol, he supposed, I believe.
The young man who was with her—we may save the
trouble by calling him Hassendean, I think—seemed
rather agitated, but not quite in the way that the late
Mr. Whalley had anticipated. Hassendean spoke to
the girl and got no reply, evidently. He shook her
gently, and so on; but he got no response. I think we
may cut out the details. The net result was that to
Mr. Whalley's inexperienced eye, the girl looked very
far gone. Hassendean seemed to be thunderstruck by
the situation, which puzzled the late Mr. Whalley
considerably at the time.”</p>

<p>Markfield, apparently unimpressed, leaned across
and ran some more of the liquid out of his funnel.
Flamborough guessed the movement might be intended
to conceal his features from easy observation.</p>

<p>“The next stage in the proceedings took the late
Mr. Whalley by surprise, it seems,” Sir Clinton went
on. “Leaving the girl where she was, young Hassendean
left the room for a minute or two. When he came
back, he had a pistol in his hand. This was not at all
what the late Mr. Whalley had been expecting. Least
of all did he expect to see young Hassendean go up to
the girl, and shoot her in the head at close quarters. I'm
sure you'll appreciate the feelings of the late Mr.
Whalley at this stage, Dr. Markfield.”</p>

<p>“Surprising,” Markfield commented abruptly.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded in agreement.</p>

<p>“What must have been even more surprising was the
sequel. The glass of the front window broke with a
blow, and from behind the curtains a man appeared,
who fell upon Hassendean. There was a struggle, a
couple of shots from Hassendean's pistol, and then
Hassendean fell on the ground—dead, as Whalley
supposed at the time.”</p>

<p>Flamborough stared hard at Markfield, but at that
moment the chemist again turned in his chair, ran the
remainder of the liquid from the funnel into his flask, and
then refilled the funnel from the bottle on the tray.
This done, he turned once more with an impassive
face to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“By this time, the late Mr. Whalley seems to have
seen all that he wanted. Just as he was turning away
from the window, he noticed the new-comer take some
small object from his waistcoat pocket and drop it on
the floor. Then Mr. Whalley felt it was time to make
himself scarce. He stepped back on to the path, made
his way round the bungalow, hurried down the
approach to the gate. There he came across a
car—evidently the one in which the assailant had arrived.
The late Mr. Whalley, even at this stage, was not quite
free from his second idea: ‘What is there in it for
me?’ He took the number of the car, and then he
made himself scarce.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton stopped for a moment or two and gazed
across at Markfield with an inscrutable face.</p>

<p>“By the way, Dr. Markfield,” he added in a casual
tone, “what was the pet name that Mrs. Silverdale
used to call you when you were alone together—the
one beginning with ‘B’?”</p>

<p>This time, it was evident to the Inspector, Sir Clinton
had got home under Markfield's guard. The chemist
glanced up with more than a shade of apprehension on
his face. He seemed to be making a mental estimate of
the situation before he replied.</p>

<p>“H'm! You know that, do you?” he said finally.
“Then there's no use denying it, I suppose. She used
to call me ‘Bear’ usually. She said I had the manners of
one, at times; and perhaps there was something in that.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed no sign that he attached much
importance to Markfield's explanation.</p>

<p>“You became intimate with her some time in 1925,
I think, just after the Silverdales came here?”</p>

<p>Markfield nodded his assent.</p>

<p>“And very shortly after that, you and she thought
it best to conceal your liaison by seeing as little of each
other as possible in public, so as not to draw attention
to your relations?”</p>

<p>“That's true.”</p>

<p>“And finally she got hold of young Hassendean to
serve as a blind? Advertised herself with him openly,
whilst you stayed in the background?”</p>

<p>“You seem to know a good deal about it,”
Markfield admitted coldly.</p>

<p>“I think I know all that matters,” the Chief
Constable commented. “You've lost the game, Dr.
Markfield.”</p>

<p>Markfield seemed to consider the situation rapidly
before he spoke again.</p>

<p>“You can't make it worse than manslaughter,” he
said at last. “It's no more than that, on the evidence
you've given me just now. I saw him shoot Yvonne,
and then, in the struggle afterwards, his pistol went off
twice by accident and hit him. You couldn't call that a
case of murder. I shall plead that it was done in
self-defence; and you haven't Whalley to put into the
box against me.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took no pains to conceal a sardonic
smile.</p>

<p>“It won't do, Dr. Markfield,” he pointed out. “You
might get off on that plea if it were only the bungalow
business that you were charged with. But there's the
murder of the maid at Heatherfield as well. You can't
twist that into a self-defence affair. No jury would look
at it for a moment.”</p>

<p>“You seem to know a good deal about it,” Markfield
repeated thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“I suppose what you really wanted at Heatherfield
was a packet of your love-letters to Mrs. Silverdale?”
Sir Clinton asked.</p>

<p>Markfield confirmed this with a nod.</p>

<p>“That's all you have against me, I suppose?” he
demanded after a pause.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“No,” he said, “there's the affair of the late Mr.
Whalley as well.”</p>

<p>Markfield's face betrayed neither surprise nor
chagrin at this fresh charge.</p>

<p>“That's all, then?” he questioned again, with
apparent unconcern.</p>

<p>“All that's of importance,” Sir Clinton admitted.
“Of course, in the guise of our friend Mr. Justice, you
did your best to throw suspicion on Silverdale. That's
a minor point, so far as you're concerned now. It's
curious how you murderers can't leave well alone.
If you hadn't played the fool there, you'd have given
us ever so much more trouble.”</p>

<p>Markfield made no answer at the moment. He
seemed to be reviewing the whole situation in his mind,
thinking hard before he broke the silence.</p>

<p>“Good thing, a scientific training,” he said at length,
rather unexpectedly. “It teaches one to realise the
bearing of plain facts. My game seems to be up. You've
been too smart for me.”</p>

<p>He paused, and a grim smile crossed his face, as
though he found something humorous in the situation.</p>

<p>“You seem to have enough stuff there to pitch a
tale to a jury,” he continued, “and I daresay you've
more in reserve. I'm not inclined to be dragged
squalling to the gallows—too undignified for my taste. I'll
tell you the facts.”</p>

<p>Flamborough, eager that things should be done in
proper form, interposed the usual official cautionary
statement.</p>

<p>“That's all right,” Markfield answered carelessly.
“You'll find paper over yonder on my desk, beside the
typewriter. You can take down what I say, and I'll
sign it afterwards if you think that necessary when I've
finished.”</p>

<p>The Inspector crossed the room, picked up a number
of sheets of typewriting paper, and returned to the
table. He pulled out his fountain-pen and prepared to
take notes.</p>

<p>“Mind if I light my pipe?” Markfield inquired.</p>

<p>As the chemist put his hand to his pocket,
Flamborough half-rose from his seat; but he sank back
again into his chair when a tobacco-pouch appeared
instead of the pistol which he had been afraid might
be produced. Markfield threw him a glance which
showed he had fathomed the meaning of the Inspector's
start.</p>

<p>“Don't get nervous,” he said contemptuously.
“There'll be no shooting. This isn't a film, you know.”</p>

<p>He reached up to the mantelpiece for his pipe,
charged it deliberately, lighted it, and then turned
to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“You've got a warrant for my arrest, I suppose?”
he asked in a tone which sounded almost indifferent.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton's affirmative reply did not seem to
disturb him. He settled himself comfortably in his chair
and appeared interested chiefly in getting his pipe to
burn well.</p>

<p>“I'll speak slowly,” he said at last, turning to the
Inspector. “If I go too fast, just let me know.”</p>

<p>Flamborough nodded and sat, pen in hand, waiting
for the opening of the narrative.</p>

<h2>Chapter XVIII. <br/> The Connecting Thread</h2>

<p>“I don't see how you did it,” Markfield began, “but
you got to the root of things when you traced a
connection between me and Yvonne Silverdale. I'd never
expected that. And considering how we'd kept our
affairs quiet for years, I thought I'd be safe at the end
of it all.</p>

<p>“It was in 1925, as you said, that the thing began—just
after Silverdale came to the Croft-Thornton. There
was a sort of amateur dramatic show afoot then, and
both Yvonne and I joined it. That brought us together
first. The rest didn't take long. I suppose it was a case
of the attraction of opposites. One can't explain that
sort of thing on any rational basis. It just happened.”</p>

<p>He hesitated for a moment, as though casting his
mind back to these earlier times; then he continued:</p>

<p>“Once it <em>had</em> happened, I did the thinking for the
pair of us. Clearly enough, the thing was to avoid
suspicion. That meant that people mustn't couple our
names even casually. And the way to prevent that was
to see as little of each other as possible in public. I
dropped out of things, cut dances, left the theatrical
affair, and posed as being engrossed in work. She
advertised herself as dance-mad. It suited her well enough.
Result: we hardly ever were seen in the same room.
No one thought of linking our names in the remotest
way. I gave her no presents. . . .”</p>

<p>“Think again,” Sir Clinton interrupted. “You gave
her at least one present.”</p>

<p>Markfield reflected for some moments; then his face
showed more than a trace of discomfiture.</p>

<p>“You mean a signet-ring? Good Lord! I forgot all
about it, that night at the bungalow! So that's where
you got your story about the initial ‘B.’ from? I never
thought of that.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made no comment, and after a few
seconds Markfield continued.</p>

<p>“In the early days, we wrote letters to each
other—just a few. Later on, I urged her to burn them, for
safety's sake. But she treasured them, apparently;
and she wouldn't do it. She said they were quite safe
in a locked drawer in her bedroom. Silverdale never
entered her room, you know. It seemed safe enough.
It was these damned letters that landed me in
the end.</p>

<p>“Yvonne and I hadn't any reason to worry about
Silverdale. He'd lost all interest in her and gone off
after Avice Deepcar. Oh, that was all quite respectable
and above-board. She's a decent girl—nothing against
her. We'd have been quite glad to see him marry her,
except that it wouldn't have suited our book. My screw
was good enough for a single man. It wouldn't have
kept two of us—not on the basis we needed, anyhow.
And a divorce case might have got me chucked out of
the Croft-Thornton. Where would we have been then?
So you see that alley was barred.</p>

<p>“By and by, young Hassendean turned up. When I
found he was getting keen on Yvonne, I encouraged her
to keep him on her string. She had no use for the boy
except as a dancing-partner; but we used him as a
blind to cover the real state of affairs. So long as people
could talk about him and her, they weren't likely to
think of her and me. So she led him on until the brat
thought he was indispensable. I suppose he fell in love
with her, in a way. We never imagined he might be
dangerous.</p>

<p>“That was the state of things up to ten days before
the affair at the bungalow. There seemed to be no
reason why it shouldn't have lasted for years. But just
then Yvonne got news of this money that had been left
her—about £12,000. That put a new light on the affair.
It gave her an income of her own. We could afford to
let Silverdale divorce her; then I could have chucked
the Croft-Thornton, married her, and set up in private
practice somewhere. Her money would have kept us
going until I had scraped a business together; and no
one cares a damn about the matrimonial affairs of a
chemical expert in private practice.</p>

<p>“We talked it over, and we practically made up our
minds to take that course. It seemed a bit too good to be
true. Anyhow it would have got us out of all the
hole-and-corner business. After three years of that, we were
getting a bit sick of it. Another week or two, and
Westerhaven would have had all the scandal it needed, if it was
inclined that way. We'd have got each other. And
Silverdale could have married his girl with all the
sympathy of the town. Ideal, eh?”</p>

<p>He puffed savagely at his pipe for a moment or two
before speaking again.</p>

<p>“Then that young skunk Hassendean. . . . He must
needs get above himself and ruin the whole scheme,
damn him! I can only guess what happened. He got to
know about the properties of hyoscine. There was
plenty of it at the Croft-Thornton. He must have stolen
some of it and used it to drug Yvonne that night.
However, that's going a bit fast. I'll tell you what
happened, as it seemed to me.”</p>

<p>Markfield paused and glanced inquiringly at the
Inspector.</p>

<p>“It's all right,” Flamborough reassured him. “If you
don't speak quicker than that, I can take it down
easily.”</p>

<p>Markfield leaned over and gave the contents of his
flask a gentle shake before continuing his narrative.</p>

<p>“That night, I'd been out late at the Research
Station on a piece of work. I mean I'd gone there after
dinner for a few minutes. When I finished, I came in by
the Lizardbridge Road in my car. It was a bit foggy,
and I was driving slowly. Just after I'd passed the
bungalow, I met an open car. We were both crawling,
owing to the fog; and I had a good look at the people in
the other car. One was young Hassendean. The other
was Yvonne; and even as I passed them, I could see there
was something queer about the business. Besides, what
would she be doing with that young whelp away out
of town? I knew her far too well to think she was up to
any hanky-panky with him.</p>

<p>“It looked queer. So as soon as I was past them, I
turned my car, meaning to follow them and stand by.
Unfortunately in the fog, I almost ditched my car in
turning; and it gave me some trouble to swing round—one
wheel got into the trench at the edge of the road.
It was a minute or so before I got clear again. Then I
went off after them.</p>

<p>“I saw the car at the door of the bungalow, and some
lights on in the place which hadn't been there when I'd
passed it on my way down. So I stopped my car at the
gate and walked up to the bungalow door. It was
locked.</p>

<p>“I didn't care about hammering on the door. That
would only have put Hassendean on the alert and left
me still on the wrong side of the door. So I walked round
to the lighted window and managed to get a glimpse of
the room through the curtains. Yvonne was lying back
in an armchair, facing me. I thought she'd fainted or
something like that. The whole affair puzzled me a bit,
you see. That young skunk Hassendean was wandering
about the room, evidently in a devil of a state of nerves
about something or other.</p>

<p>“Just as I was making up my mind to break the
window, he bolted out of the room; and I thought he
meant to clear off from the house, leaving Yvonne
there—ill, perhaps. That made me pretty mad; and I
kept my eye on the front door to see that he didn't get
away without my catching him. That prevented me
from breaking the window and climbing into the
room.</p>

<p>“Then, a bit to my surprise, the young swine came
back again with something in his hand—I couldn't see
what it was then. He walked over to where Yvonne was,
in the chair, lifted his arm, and shot her in the head.
Deliberately. Nothing like an accident, remember.
And there, before my eyes, I saw the whole of our
dreams collapsing, just when we thought they were
going to come true. Pretty stiff, wasn't it?”</p>

<p>He bent forward and made a pretence of knocking
the ashes from his pipe. When he looked up again, his
face was set once more.</p>

<p>“I'm no psychologist to spin you a yarn about how
I felt just then,” he continued. “In fact, I doubt if I
felt anything except that I wanted to down that young
hound. Anyhow, I broke the glass, got my hand inside,
undid the catch, and was through the curtain before he
knew what was happening. I don't know what he
thought when he saw me. His face was almost worth
it—sheer amazement and terror. He was just bringing
up his pistol when I dropped on him and got his wrist.
Then there was a bit of a struggle; but he hadn't a
chance against me. I shot him twice in the body and
when he dropped, with blood coming from his mouth, I
knew I'd got him in the lung, and I didn't bother
further about him. He seemed done for. I hoped he
was.”</p>

<p>Markfield's voice in the last few sentences had
expressed the bitterness of his emotions; but when he
continued, he made a successful effort to keep his tone
level.</p>

<p>“One thinks quick enough in a tight corner. First
thing I did was to look at Yvonne.”</p>

<p>He shrugged his shoulders to express what he seemed
unable to put into words.</p>

<p>“That dream was done for. The only thing to do
was to clear myself. I had another look at Hassendean.
He seemed to have had his gruel. I'd a notion of
shooting him again, just to make sure, but it didn't seem
worth while. Besides, there had been row enough
already. A fourth shot might draw some passer-by. So
I left him. I picked up the pistol and cleaned my finger-marks
off it before putting it on the floor again. Then I
did the same for the window-hasp. These were the
only two things I'd touched, so I wasn't leaving
traces.</p>

<p>“Then I remembered something. Silverdale was
always leaving his cigarette holder lying about the lab.
He'd put it down on a bench or a desk and wander off,
leaving the cigarette smouldering. That happened
continually. That very afternoon, he'd left the thing in my
room and I'd pocketed it, meaning to give it back to
him when I saw him again. There it was, in my
vest-pocket.</p>

<p>“In this world, it's a case of every man for himself.
My business was to get out of the hole I was in. If
Silverdale got into a hole himself, it was his affair to get
out of it. Besides, he'd probably have an alibi, whereas
I hadn't. In any case, the more tangled the business was,
the better chance you fellows had of getting off my
scent. If the whole story came out, I didn't see how I
was to persuade a jury it had been pure self-defence
when I knew myself that it wasn't that really. Besides,
there were these infernal love-letters waiting at
Yvonne's house, all ready for the police and pointing
straight to me as a factor in the affair. I'd have had
awkward questions to answer about the contents of
them.</p>

<p>“The net result was that I cleaned Silverdale's
cigarette-holder with my handkerchief to take off any
finger-prints; and I dropped it on the floor to amuse
you people. It had that fly in the amber—absolutely
unique and easily identifiable.</p>

<p>“Then I switched off the lights, got out of the
window again, closed it behind me in case it should
attract a passer-by. I used my handkerchief to grip the
hasp when I closed it, so as not to leave any finger-prints
there. In fact, as I walked down to my car, I
felt I’d done remarkably well on the spur of the
moment.</p>

<p>“As I drove in toward Westerhaven, I conned things
over; and it struck me I'd be none the worse of seeing
someone as soon as I could. My housekeeper was away
nursing a sick relation, so no one could swear whether
I'd been at home in the evening or not. If I could drop
in on someone, there was always the chance of creating
some sort of alibi. The bother was, I knew I wasn't
quite normal. That was only natural. But if I called on
someone who saw me every day, they might spot that I
was a bit on edge and that might lead to anything, you
know. Then it flashed into my mind that Ringwood
had come here lately. I hadn't seen him for years. He
wouldn't see anything funny in my manner, even if I
was a bit abnormal.</p>

<p>“I drove to his house, and there I had a bit of
luck—a perfect gift from the gods. From a telephone
message he got while I was in the room with him, I learned
that Silverdale was out that night, one of his maids was
in bed, and the maid wanted Ringwood to call at once.
One's mind works quickly, as I told you, and I saw in
five seconds what a chance I'd got. I offered to pilot
Ringwood over to Heatherfield. That meant I'd a
perfectly sound excuse if I was seen in the
neighbourhood of the house.</p>

<p>“I dropped him at the end of Lauderdale Avenue, as
I expect he told you. During the run, I'd had time to
think over things. There was only one solution that I
could see. I had to get hold of these letters, cost what
it might. I calculated that Ringwood's visit wouldn't
be a long one; and as soon as he'd gone, I meant to
drop into Heatherfield, silence the maid, and get the
packet of letters.</p>

<p>“I must have run a bigger risk than I intended; for
evidently I got into Heatherfield between Ringwood's
visit and yours. Can you wonder I was a bit pleased
with my luck, when it all came out? I made the
tourniquet while I was waiting about. Then I went up to
Silverdale's house, rang the bell, and asked for
Silverdale. Of course he wasn't there; but the maid knew
me and let me in to write a note for him. Once she'd
seen my face and recognised me, it was all up with
her. One's own skin comes first. I might have risked
it if it hadn't been that the drawer was locked and
I had to burst it open. That meant leaving traces.
And, since she knew me, that meant losing the game.
So . . .”</p>

<p>He made a gesture as if using the tourniquet.</p>

<p>“I went home after that and destroyed these letters.
Then I sat down to do the hardest bit of thinking I've
done in my life. Time meant a good deal to me just
then, for I had to have everything cut and dried before
any questions were asked.</p>

<p>“Then the notion of a double game came into my
mind. Why not follow up the cigarette-holder move
and do my best to throw discredit on Silverdale. It was
up to him to clear himself. That gave me the notion of
anonymous letters. And obviously if I wanted any
attention paid to them, I'd have to make a good start.
That suggested giving the police the earliest information
about the bungalow affair. If they got that from
‘Justice’ then they'd pay real attention to anything
else he liked to send them. So I hit on the telegram idea
as being the safest and the quickest. And, as a sequel
to that, the obvious thing was to make a show in public
of being on Silverdale's side, so that you wouldn't
suspect me of having any possible connection with the
anonymous letters.”</p>

<p>“You overdid it just a trifle,” Sir Clinton commented
in a dry tone.</p>

<p>Markfield made a non-committal gesture, but did
not argue the point.</p>

<p>“Then,” he continued, “just as I thought I'd fixed
everything neatly, this creature Whalley descended on
me. He'd taken the number of my car at the gate and
faked up a yarn about an accident, so that he could
get me identified for him. He called on me and started
blackmail. I paid him, of course, to keep him quiet.
But naturally I couldn't let him stand in my way after
all I'd gone through safely. He wasn't a very valuable
life at the best, I gather.</p>

<p>“Anyhow, I got him up here one night—my housekeeper
was still away—and throttled him without too
much trouble. Then I took the body down into the
garage, put it into my car, and drove out the
Lizardbridge Road a bit before tipping him into the ditch.
I left the tourniquet beside his body. It was a
specially-contrived one, meant to throw some more suspicion on
Silverdale. I forgot to say that I borrowed Silverdale's
lab. coat to wear during the operation, in case of there
being any blood. And I tore off a button and left it in
Whalley's hand. Then I put the torn jacket back on
Silverdale's peg, ready for the police.</p>

<p>“Naturally I was quite pleased to hear that
Silverdale had been arrested. That was his look-out, after
all. And he seemed to be in trouble over an alibi, which
was better news still. The next thing was to clinch the
business, if possible.</p>

<p>“I've told you that once upon a time I played some
parts in an amateur dramatic show. I was really not
bad. And it struck me, after I'd seen you once or twice,
Sir Clinton, that I could make myself up into a very
fair copy of you. We're about the same height to start
with. I wouldn't have risked it with anyone who knew
both of us; but I'd learned that Avice Deepcar was out
of town, and I thought I could manage to take in her
maid easily enough.</p>

<p>“So I raided her place, posing as Sir Clinton
Driffield—I'd had some notion of the sort in my mind
for a while and had cards printed in London all ready:
one of these print-’em-while-you-wait places which left
no traces behind in the way of an address or an account.
In my raid, I got a valuable document.”</p>

<p>“It was a clever enough fake, Dr. Markfield,” Sir
Clinton said reflectively. “But you left one or two
things in it that we took hold of easily enough. By the
way, I suppose you simply traced Mrs. Silverdale's
writing from some old letters when you put the faked
address on the code advertisements you sent to the
newspapers?”</p>

<p>Markfield nodded.</p>

<p>“You don’t seem to have missed much,” he admitted.</p>

<p>He rose slowly to his feet and put down his pipe.</p>

<p>“I think that's the whole story,” he said indifferently.
“If you've got it all down now, Inspector, I'll sign it
and initial it for you. Then I suppose it'll be a case
of ringing up the Black Maria or something like
that.”</p>

<p>He glanced at Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“You wouldn't care to tell me how you worried the
thing out, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“No,” said the Chief Constable bluntly. “I don't
feel inclined to.”</p>

<p>Markfield made a gesture as though regretting this
decision. He drew his fountain pen from his pocket,
unscrewed the cap deliberately, and moved round the
table towards the sheets of paper which the Inspector
had spread out for signature. A thought seemed to
occur to him as he did so, and he bent forward to the
apparatus on the tray. His manner was so unconcerned
and the gesture so natural that neither Sir Clinton nor
the Inspector thought of interfering before it was too
late. Markfield put his hand on the tap of the funnel,
and as he did so, his face lighted up with malicious glee.</p>

<p>“Now!” he exclaimed.</p>

<p>He turned the tap, and on the instant the whole
house shook under a terrific detonation.</p>

<h2>Chapter XIX. <br/> Excerpts from Sir Clinton's Notebook</h2>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the murder at Heatherfield.</p>

<p>. . . The following things seem suggestive. (1) The
break-up of the Silverdale ménage, with Silverdale
turning to Avice Deepcar whilst Mrs. Silverdale lets
Hassendean frequent her openly. (2) Hassendean's
interference with the usual routine of coffee serving after
dinner at Heatherfield. (3) The “dazed” appearance
of Mrs. Silverdale when she left the house after coffee.
(4) The fact that the two shots which wounded Hassendean
at close quarters were not fired in Ivy Lodge.
(This exonerates Dr. Ringwood, who might otherwise
have come under suspicion). (5) The disappearance of
Mrs. Silverdale, who was last seen in Hassendean's
company. (6) The words: “Caught me . . . Thought
it was all right. . . . Never guessed,” which Hassendean
uttered before he died. (7) The murder of the maid at
Heatherfield, which was clearly done by someone she
knew well or she would not have admitted him at that
time of night. (8) The ransacking of one particular
drawer in Mrs. Silverdale's bedroom, suggesting that
the murderer had full knowledge of her private affairs.
(9) The envelope fragment with the date-stamp 1925,
which might indicate that the drawer had held letters
compromising to the murderer. (10) The old dance
programmes on which asterisks stood for the name of
some partner, who must have been intimate with her
at that period.</p>

<p>The affair can hardly have been the usual social-triangle
tragedy: Silverdale surprising his wife with
Hassendean. This hypothesis fails to account for (<i>a</i>)
the dazed appearance of Mrs. Silverdale, which
suggests drugging; (<i>b</i>) the murder and burglary at
Heatherfield, Silverdale's own house in which he could
come and go freely without resorting to such extremes;
and (<i>c</i>) The expression “Caught <em>me</em> . . .” in Hassendean's
last words, since “Caught <em>us</em> . . .” would have
been the natural phrase in the case of the triangle-drama.</p>

<p>Curious that Dr. Markfield should pilot Ringwood
right across the town and then drop him at the end of
the avenue instead of going a hundred yards or so
further, to the very gate of the house. Worth keeping
in mind that Dr. Markfield knew Mrs. Silverdale well
at one time, though he cooled off later (Ringwood's
evidence). Compare the old dance-programmes?</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the discovery of the bungalow tragedy.</p>

<p>This is clearly the second half of the Hassendean
business. Obviously Hassendean prepared the bungalow
beforehand for the reception of Mrs. Silverdale.
Either she consented to go there willingly; or else, as
seems more likely, he drugged her after dinner and took
her there without her consent. In any case, it was
premeditated on his part. Evidently he overshot the dose
of the drug and killed her. His subsequent shooting the
body suggests that he meant to leave an obvious cause
of death, which might divert attention from the poison
altogether and cause it to be overlooked in a P.M.
examination. In that case, it's likely that he meant to
take the body elsewhere in his car and leave it—meaning
to suggest that she committed suicide. Of course
the shooting may have been done accidentally or by a
third party who did not know she was already dead.
But this seems unlikely on the face of things.</p>

<p>Four people at least were at the bungalow that night:
Mrs. Silverdale, Hassendean, and the two watchers at
the windows. One of the watchers must be this fellow
“Justice,” who had the first news of the affair. One of
them was probably the murderer of Hassendean, since
he entered the room. The second watcher may have
seen the murder committed, though this is not certain.</p>

<p>Apart from the general state of the bungalow, the
only clues of interest are the cigarette-holder and the
signet-ring on Mrs. Silverdale's finger.</p>

<p>Silverdale denies that he gave her the ring; and as
the date 1925 in it belongs to the period of dissociation
in the Silverdale ménage, it seems probable that he is
speaking the truth. The initial “B” engraved in the
ring evidently indicates the donor, and it may stand
for either a real initial or the initial of a pet name.
Possibly the donor was the person indicated by an
asterisk on the dance-programmes and (or) the person
who burgled Heatherfield to get hold of letters which
perhaps compromised him.</p>

<p>The cigarette-holder found at the bungalow is
undoubtedly Silverdale's, but that does not necessarily
prove that Silverdale was ever there. Someone else, who
had a chance of laying hands on his cigarette-holder,
may have left it to mislead us. All that it tells is that
someone associated with Silverdale was at the
bungalow. Both Hassendean and Mrs. Silverdale fit this
description.</p>

<p>As to Silverdale, it's evident that he wanted to get
rid of his wife and marry Miss Deepcar. But that does
not prove he was prepared to go the length of murder
to gain his ends. He has no alibi for the period of the
bungalow affair; but few of us could produce an alibi
for a given time on the spur of the moment.</p>

<p>Miss Hailsham had a grudge against Hassendean,
but there is no evidence connecting her with the
bungalow affair.</p>

<p>The maid at Heatherfield seems a mere pawn in the
game. Silverdale might have used her to drug the
coffee; but Hassendean's unusual interference with the
normal serving of the coffee (coupled with his
preparations beforehand at the bungalow) point to him as the
administrator of the drug.</p>

<p>As to the drug, Hassendean must have had easy
access to it. It's a mydriatic drug, since the eye-pupils
were expanded. Miss Deepcar mentioned hyoscine
when she came into the room at the Croft-Thornton
Institute, so that evidently they have it on the premises
there. Hyoscine narcosis has one special peculiarity:
it obliterates from the patient's memory all recollection
of what may have happened while the drug was acting.
At least that's what they say about the “Twilight
Sleep” treatment. This would be the very drug
Hassendean would require for his purpose. Mrs. Silverdale
would wake up from the narcosis with only the very
faintest recollection of what had happened.</p>

<p>A preliminary hypothesis seems possible. Hassendean
resolved to drug Mrs. Silverdale with hyoscine and take
her to the bungalow while under the influence of the
narcotic. He prepared the place beforehand and got
her there successfully. But he overshot the dose he gave
her, and she died in his hands at the bungalow. He
then shot her in the head, meaning to take her away in
his car and leave the body somewhere, arranged as
though it were a case of suicide. He might hope that in
these circumstances the drug might not be spotted and
thus he would be completely clear. But someone else
saw the shooting and, being keenly interested in Mrs.
Silverdale, shot Hassendean in revenge. On the face
of things, this third party must be either “Justice” or
the second watcher. Then, if this third party had been
intimate with Mrs. Silverdale, there might be letters in
her possession which would bring out their relations;
and these letters it might be essential to secure. Hence
the murder of the maid and the burglary at
Heatherfield. Very sketchy, of course, but it seems suggestive.</p>

<p>If it be the truth or near it, then the murderer must
have known when to strike at Heatherfield, for usually
there were two maids on the premises, which would be
too big a job for a single assailant. But, from Ringwood's
evidence, <em>Markfield learned the state of affairs at Heatherfield
that night from the 'phone call which came through when
he was at Ringwood's house</em>. And at once he offered to
pilot Ringwood through the fog—which gave him a
perfectly sound excuse for being in the neighbourhood
of Heatherfield if anyone happened to recognise him.
Further, he deliberately avoided taking Ringwood up
to the Heatherfield gate, but dropped him at the end
of Lauderdale Avenue. This would avoid any chance
of his being directly connected with Heatherfield that
night; and after he left Ringwood, he could easily
drive round to the back of Heatherfield and watch his
chance to enter the house.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after reading Hassendean's Journal.</p>

<p>Three things emerge from Hassendean's M.S. (1) He
seems to have excited Miss Hailsham to the extent of a
loss of control when he jilted her; but that does not
in itself prove anything. (2) Mrs. Silverdale obviously
led him on and continually disappointed him. This fits
in with the hypothesis I made. (3) His remark: “Only
I shall know of my triumph,” agrees very neatly with
the memory-blotting property of hyoscine. As a whole,
then, the hypothesis, seems justified.</p>

<p>As to Markfield, I notice he makes a parade of
intense reluctance if he is asked to give evidence involving
Silverdale; but when he is actually induced to talk,
he says things which tell heavily against his colleague.
As he's by no means a fool, this seems worth attention.</p>

<p>It is possible that the moneylender might wish to
ensure that young Hassendean's death should be proved
to be due to murder; but I doubt if a firm doing so
well (as appears from their office, which Flamborough
describes as opulent) would be likely to go the length
of murder itself for the sake of a mere £5,000. And if
Spratton had no hand in the actual murder, it is hard
to see how he could get the first news of it. On the face
of things, it's unlikely that he was “Justice.” And it is
practically impossible to fit him into the affair at
Heatherfield, which is interlocked with the bungalow
tragedy. Renard's story of Mrs. Silverdale's
inheritance may have some bearing on the affair—but only
if Silverdale is the murderer; and that won't fit in with
the Heatherfield business on any reasonable
assumptions.</p>

<p>One point certainly tells badly against Silverdale's
credibility. He must have told a deliberate lie when he
said that on the night of the bungalow murder he was
working late at the Croft-Thornton Institute. This tale
seems completely exploded by the evidence which
Flamborough unearthed.</p>

<p>Silverdale, however, is not necessarily a murderer
because he has been trapped in a lie. He may have used
his lie to cover up something quite other than murder;
and since he was obviously being suspected of murder,
his motive for lying must have been a strong one or he
would have made a clean breast of the affair. The only
factor of sufficient importance seems to be a woman
whom he hoped to shield by his lie; and the only
woman in the case, so far, whom he has a clear interest
in is Miss Deepcar. One can easily imagine
circumstances in which he might find it politic to lie.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the identification of hyoscine in the body.</p>

<p>As I expected, hyoscine was the poison. That fits in
with Hassendean's journal entry and with the
hypothesis I made before. Hassendean, like most people
at the Croft-Thornton, had access to the hyoscine in
the store. The over-dose which he used gave me some
trouble at first, but I think that's cleared up. All the
available evidence shows that Hassendean was a
careless and inaccurate worker. From his notebook, I
found that he used the abbreviation <i>gr.</i> for “gramme,”
whereas Markfield uses <i>gm.</i> It seems probable that
Hassendean looked up the normal dose of hyoscine in
a book of reference, found it given in apothecaries’
weights as “1/100 gr.,” and copied this down as it
stood, without making a note to remind him that
here <i>gr.</i> meant “grain” and not “gramme.” When he came
to weigh out the dose he meant to give to Mrs.
Silverdale, he would read “1/100 gr.” as <em>the hundredth part
of a gramme</em>, since in laboratory work the metric system
is always used and chemists never think in terms of
grains. Thus Hassendean, weighing out what in his
carelessness he supposed to be a normal dose, would
take 0.01 <em>grammes</em> of hyoscine. (The reference books
state that serious poisoning has been caused by as little
as 0.0002 gramme of hyoscine). As there are fifteen
grains in a gramme, his quantity would be fifteen times
the normal dose, which fits fairly well with the amount
found in the body. He had no reason for killing Mrs.
Silverdale, provided that the hyoscine obliterated her
memory of that evening's proceedings; and it seems
most improbable that he deliberately planned to cause
her death.</p>

<p>Miss Hailsham obviously does not wish to see
Hassendean's murderer caught; and therefore her
identification with “Justice” is more than problematical. She
may or may not have an alibi for the time of the
bungalow affair, since she admits going to a dance in her car
and coming away almost immediately. One may keep
her case in reserve for the present.</p>

<p>Markfield's car, GX.9074, is alleged to have been
in an accident that night. The man who complained
about it might provide a clue to Markfield's movements,
if we can lay hands on him.</p>

<p>The man who appeared at Fountain Street Police
Station, fishing for a reward in connection with the
bungalow affair, can hardly be anyone but one of the
two watchers at the windows. Unfortunately, unless he
chooses to talk, we have no power to extract
information from him. Flamborough states that he can lay
hands on him at any moment, as he is well known to our
men.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the receipt of the code advertisement.</p>

<p>This “Justice” is an ingenious fellow. First his trail
was covered by using letters clipped from telegraph
forms; now he resorts to advertisements, so that we do
not get his handwriting. However, he betrays his
knowledge of the internal affairs of the Croft-Thornton,
which is a bad mistake since it limits the circle of
inquiry.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the interview with Renard.</p>

<p>I don't care much for Mr. Renard. He poses too much
as the honest fellow rather puzzled by the course of
events. His evidence, certainly supplied a fresh motive
for Silverdale in the rôle of murderer. But Silverdale
will not fit into the Heatherfield affair on any
reasonable basis; and the tragedies at Heatherfield and at the
bungalow are obviously interconnected. It's a nuisance
that Silverdale won't tell us where he spent the
night of the murders. It might save trouble if he
did so.</p>

<p>“Justice” seems to be making a fool of himself. The
fact that he forged Mrs. Silverdale's writing in the
advertisement addresses limits the circle still further.
We now know: (<i>a</i>) that “Justice” must have learned
of the bungalow shooting almost as soon as it was done;
(<i>b</i>) that he knows hyoscine was in the Croft-Thornton
stores; (<i>c</i>) that he is in possession of specimens of Mrs.
Silverdale's writing.</p>

<p>Markfield might fill the bill.</p>

<p>Other possibles are: Miss Hailsham, Miss Deepcar,
and Silverdale himself.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the Whalley murder.</p>

<p>So Flamborough has let Whalley slip through our
fingers!</p>

<p>My impression is that Whalley was murdered elsewhere
and taken out in a car to be dumped into the
ditch where he was found. The man behind all this is
clever, and wouldn't go in for an open-road murder in
which he might be interrupted by a motorist coming
round the corner.</p>

<p>The tourniquet was obviously intended to mislead
us, or it would never have been left beside the body.
The Heatherfield tourniquet was a makeshift thing
which indicated no one in particular; this new one,
with its pressure-tubing and banjo-string, seems
constructed specially as evidence. The tubing suggests the
Croft-Thornton chemical work; the banjo-string points
to Silverdale, since I learned from Ringwood that
Silverdale was a banjo-player. <em>Both these points would
be familiar to Markfield.</em></p>

<p>The laboratory coat was apparently left on its peg
every night after work was done. It was therefore
accessible to anyone in the Croft-Thornton, after
Silverdale had gone for the day. <em>Markfield could have
procured it, if necessary, and returned it when his work with it
was over.</em> If the Whalley murder was committed in
some secluded spot—say inside a house—the murderer
would hardly have left a clue, like this button and shred
of cloth, in his victim's hand, since he would have plenty
of time to search the body at leisure. As things are, it
looks like a manufactured clue, especially since the
shred of cloth is so characteristic.</p>

<p>Silverdale again has no alibi; <em>but neither has Markfield</em>,
since his housekeeper was away nursing a relative. We
shall need to wait for further evidence.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the raid on Avice Deepcar's house.</p>

<p>Flamborough has arrested Silverdale. Perhaps it's
a sound move, though not from his point of view. I
hope it will bring things to a crisis, and that we
may be able to fish something out of the disturbed
waters.</p>

<p>One point is already established: Silverdale had
nothing to do with this raid on Miss Deepcar's
house.</p>

<p>The raider must have been a man. Miss Deepcar
herself could not have impersonated me well enough to
deceive her own maid. Miss Hailsham has a girl's figure
and could hardly have posed as myself. The shape of her
face, and especially her mouth, would make that
impossible. No other woman that we know about is
sufficiently mixed up in the business to make it worth
while to run a risk like that.</p>

<p><em>Markfield, according to Ringwood's evidence, used to go in
for amateur theatricals. Further, Markfield knew—for he told
me so at the Croft-Thornton—that Miss Deepcar was out of
town on the night of the raid on her house</em>, so if he was the
raider, he could be sure that he wouldn't have to meet
her and run the risk of meeting (<i>a</i>) a person who knew
him when undisguised; and (<i>b</i>) a person who knew my
appearance well enough.</p>

<p>What was he after? Letters, evidently. And again this
limits the circle, since the raider must be someone who
has knowledge of the relations between Silverdale and
Miss Deepcar.</p>

<p>Miss Deepcar's evidence gives Silverdale a complete
alibi for the time of the bungalow murder. On the other
hand, they may both have been mixed up in it; in
which case her evidence carries no weight. But the
Heatherfield affair seems the key to the whole business,
and Silverdale had no motive for that murder, even
assuming he wanted to destroy the draft of his wife's
new will. On the face of it, Miss Deepcar's evidence
seems sound and clears Silverdale.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written after the receipt of the photographs.</p>

<p>Curious how people will never let well alone. If this
fellow “Justice” had been content to stay out of the
case, we'd have had a much stiffer job. Now at last he's
let us see what side he's on—anti-Silverdale definitely.</p>

<p>The photographs are obvious fakes if one examines
them carefully. Their only importance is as a guide to
the identity of “Justice.”</p>

<p>They limit the circle still further, since the production
of them implies the use of a good microphotographic
camera; and the Croft-Thornton Institute has more
than one of these.</p>

<blockquote class="points"><div>

  Points which seem to tell against Markfield:

  <p>(1) He was intimate with Mrs. Silverdale shortly
  after she came here.</p>

  <p>(2) He was near Heatherfield on the night of the
  murder.</p>

  <p>(3) He knew the maid was alone in Heatherfield
  except for her sick companion.</p>

  <p>(4) He could easily have obtained possession of
  Silverdale's cigarette-holder.</p>

  <p>(5) Owing to his housekeeper's absence, he could
  move about freely with no check on the times
  when he left his house or returned to it.</p>

  <p>(6) He was out at the Research Station on the
  Lizardbridge Road early in the evening on the
  night of the bungalow affair.</p>

  <p>(7) The evidence he gave us, for all his pretence of
  reluctance, was directed against Silverdale.</p>

  <p>(8) He was well acquainted with all the
  arrangements of the Croft-Thornton Institute.</p>

  <p>(9) Owing to his earlier association with Mrs.
  Silverdale, he had access to specimens of her
  writing.</p>

  <p>(10) His car's number, GX.9074, was known to
  Whalley, who made inquiries about it with
  reference to the night of the murders.</p>

  <p>(11) He knew that Silverdale had a banjo.</p>

  <p>(12) He had access to Silverdale's laboratory coat.</p>

  <p>(13) He knew of the relations between Silverdale
  and Miss Deepcar.</p>

  <p>(14) He knew that Miss Deepcar would be out of
  town on the night when the raid was made on her
  house.</p>

  <p>(15) He was a good amateur actor.</p>

  <p>(16) He had access to a microphotographic camera.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>These are established facts. Make the assumption that
his earlier association with Mrs. Silverdale was a guilty
and not an innocent one, and see where that leads. It
suggests the following:</p>

<blockquote class="points"><div>

  <p>(<i>a</i>) That they took special care to conceal their
  intimacy, since Silverdale would have been glad
  of a divorce.</p>

  <p>(<i>b</i>) That they themselves did not wish for a divorce,
  possibly for financial reasons.</p>

  <p>(<i>c</i>) That Hassendean was utilised as a shield for the
  real intrigue, without understanding that he was
  serving this purpose.</p>

  <p>(<i>d</i>) That he took the bit in his teeth and resorted to
  hyoscine to gain his ends.</p>

  <p>(<i>e</i>) That Markfield, on his way home from the
  Research Station that night, caught a glimpse of
  Hassendean driving Mrs. Silverdale out to the
  bungalow, and became suspicious.</p>

  <p>(<i>f</i>) That he followed them and the tragedy ensued.</p>

  <p>(<i>g</i>) That after the tragedy, Markfield realised the
  danger of his love-letters to Mrs. Silverdale
  which were in her room at Heatherfield.</p>

  <p>(<i>h</i>) That the Heatherfield murder followed as a
  sequel to this.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Finally, there is the inscription in the ring which Mrs.
Silverdale wore. Markfield has no initial “B” in his
name; but the “B” might stand for some pet name
which she used for him.</p>

<p>The net result of it all is that there are strong grounds
for suspicion against him, but no real proof that one
could put confidently before a jury.</p>

<p>Possibly he might be bluffed. I'll try it.</p>

<p class="excerpt">Written some time after the explosion at Markfield's house.</p>

<p>One might put it down as a drawn game. We failed to
hang Markfield, for the explosion killed him on the spot.
Luckily, the effects were extraordinarily localised, and
Flamborough and I got off alive, though badly
damaged temporarily.</p>

<p>Markfield, one has to admit, was too clever for us at
the last. From what a chemist has since told me,
tetranitromethane detonates with extraordinary violence
in presence of triethylamine, though it is perfectly
safe to handle under normal conditions. Markfield
had about half a pound or more of tetranitromethane
in his conical flask; in his dropping funnel he had
alcohol, or some other harmless liquid, colourless like
triethylamine; and in his stoppered bottle he had
triethylamine itself. While he talked to us, he ran the
alcohol into the tetranitromethane—a perfectly
harmless operation. Then, when he saw the game was up, he
ran the funnel empty and refilled it from the bottle. As
we saw it, this was simply a preparation for continuing the
experiment which we had already found to be harmless;
but in practice it meant that he had only to turn his tap
and mix the two liquids in order to get his explosion.
He staged it so well that neither Flamborough nor I
spotted what he was after.</p>

<p>The house was a perfect wreck, they tell me: doors
and windows blown out, ceilings down, walls cracked.
The room we were in was completely gutted by the
explosion; and Markfield was torn in pieces. I didn't
see it, of course. The next thing I remember was waking
up in a nursing home. Possibly it was cheap at the price
of getting rid of Markfield. He was a good specimen of
the callous murderer. The only soft spot in him seems
to have been his passion for Yvonne Silverdale.</p>
