<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XVIII. The Connecting Thread</h2>
			<p>“I don’t see how you did it,” Markfield began, “but you got to the root of things when you traced a connection between me and Yvonne Silverdale. I’d never expected that. And considering how we’d kept our affairs quiet for years, I thought I’d be safe at the end of it all.</p>
			<p>“It was in 1925, as you said, that the thing began⁠—just after Silverdale came to the Croft-Thornton. There was a sort of amateur dramatic show afoot then, and both Yvonne and I joined it. That brought us together first. The rest didn’t take long. I suppose it was a case of the attraction of opposites. One can’t explain that sort of thing on any rational basis. It just happened.”</p>
			<p>He hesitated for a moment, as though casting his mind back to these earlier times; then he continued:</p>
			<p>“Once it <em>had</em> happened, I did the thinking for the pair of us. Clearly enough, the thing was to avoid suspicion. That meant that people mustn’t couple our names even casually. And the way to prevent that was to see as little of each other as possible in public. I dropped out of things, cut dances, left the theatrical affair, and posed as being engrossed in work. She advertised herself as dance-mad. It suited her well enough. Result: we hardly ever were seen in the same room. No one thought of linking our names in the remotest way. I gave her no presents.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Think again,” Sir Clinton interrupted. “You gave her at least one present.”</p>
			<p>Markfield reflected for some moments; then his face showed more than a trace of discomfiture.</p>
			<p>“You mean a signet-ring? Good Lord! I forgot all about it, that night at the bungalow! So that’s where you got your story about the initial ‘B.’ from? I never thought of that.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made no comment, and after a few seconds Markfield continued.</p>
			<p>“In the early days, we wrote letters to each other⁠—just a few. Later on, I urged her to burn them, for safety’s sake. But she treasured them, apparently; and she wouldn’t do it. She said they were quite safe in a locked drawer in her bedroom. Silverdale never entered her room, you know. It seemed safe enough. It was these damned letters that landed me in the end.</p>
			<p>“Yvonne and I hadn’t any reason to worry about Silverdale. He’d lost all interest in her and gone off after Avice Deepcar. Oh, that was all quite respectable and above-board. She’s a decent girl⁠—nothing against her. We’d have been quite glad to see him marry her, except that it wouldn’t have suited our book. My screw was good enough for a single man. It wouldn’t have kept two of us⁠—not on the basis we needed, anyhow. And a divorce case might have got me chucked out of the Croft-Thornton. Where would we have been then? So you see that alley was barred.</p>
			<p>“By and by, young Hassendean turned up. When I found he was getting keen on Yvonne, I encouraged her to keep him on her string. She had no use for the boy except as a dancing-partner; but we used him as a blind to cover the real state of affairs. So long as people could talk about him and her, they weren’t likely to think of her and me. So she led him on until the brat thought he was indispensable. I suppose he fell in love with her, in a way. We never imagined he might be dangerous.</p>
			<p>“That was the state of things up to ten days before the affair at the bungalow. There seemed to be no reason why it shouldn’t have lasted for years. But just then Yvonne got news of this money that had been left her⁠—about £12,000. That put a new light on the affair. It gave her an income of her own. We could afford to let Silverdale divorce her; then I could have chucked the Croft-Thornton, married her, and set up in private practice somewhere. Her money would have kept us going until I had scraped a business together; and no one cares a damn about the matrimonial affairs of a chemical expert in private practice.</p>
			<p>“We talked it over, and we practically made up our minds to take that course. It seemed a bit too good to be true. Anyhow it would have got us out of all the hole-and-corner business. After three years of that, we were getting a bit sick of it. Another week or two, and Westerhaven would have had all the scandal it needed, if it was inclined that way. We’d have got each other. And Silverdale could have married his girl with all the sympathy of the town. Ideal, eh?”</p>
			<p>He puffed savagely at his pipe for a moment or two before speaking again.</p>
			<p>“Then that young skunk Hassendean.⁠ ⁠… He must needs get above himself and ruin the whole scheme, damn him! I can only guess what happened. He got to know about the properties of hyoscine. There was plenty of it at the Croft-Thornton. He must have stolen some of it and used it to drug Yvonne that night. However, that’s going a bit fast. I’ll tell you what happened, as it seemed to me.”</p>
			<p>Markfield paused and glanced inquiringly at the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“It’s all right,” Flamborough reassured him. “If you don’t speak quicker than that, I can take it down easily.”</p>
			<p>Markfield leaned over and gave the contents of his flask a gentle shake before continuing his narrative.</p>
			<p>“That night, I’d been out late at the Research Station on a piece of work. I mean I’d gone there after dinner for a few minutes. When I finished, I came in by the Lizardbridge Road in my car. It was a bit foggy, and I was driving slowly. Just after I’d passed the bungalow, I met an open car. We were both crawling, owing to the fog; and I had a good look at the people in the other car. One was young Hassendean. The other was Yvonne; and even as I passed them, I could see there was something queer about the business. Besides, what would she be doing with that young whelp away out of town? I knew her far too well to think she was up to any hanky-panky with him.</p>
			<p>“It looked queer. So as soon as I was past them, I turned my car, meaning to follow them and stand by. Unfortunately in the fog, I almost ditched my car in turning; and it gave me some trouble to swing round⁠—one wheel got into the trench at the edge of the road. It was a minute or so before I got clear again. Then I went off after them.</p>
			<p>“I saw the car at the door of the bungalow, and some lights on in the place which hadn’t been there when I’d passed it on my way down. So I stopped my car at the gate and walked up to the bungalow door. It was locked.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t care about hammering on the door. That would only have put Hassendean on the alert and left me still on the wrong side of the door. So I walked round to the lighted window and managed to get a glimpse of the room through the curtains. Yvonne was lying back in an armchair, facing me. I thought she’d fainted or something like that. The whole affair puzzled me a bit, you see. That young skunk Hassendean was wandering about the room, evidently in a devil of a state of nerves about something or other.</p>
			<p>“Just as I was making up my mind to break the window, he bolted out of the room; and I thought he meant to clear off from the house, leaving Yvonne there⁠—ill, perhaps. That made me pretty mad; and I kept my eye on the front door to see that he didn’t get away without my catching him. That prevented me from breaking the window and climbing into the room.</p>
			<p>“Then, a bit to my surprise, the young swine came back again with something in his hand⁠—I couldn’t see what it was then. He walked over to where Yvonne was, in the chair, lifted his arm, and shot her in the head. Deliberately. Nothing like an accident, remember. And there, before my eyes, I saw the whole of our dreams collapsing, just when we thought they were going to come true. Pretty stiff, wasn’t it?”</p>
			<p>He bent forward and made a pretence of knocking the ashes from his pipe. When he looked up again, his face was set once more.</p>
			<p>“I’m no psychologist to spin you a yarn about how I felt just then,” he continued. “In fact, I doubt if I felt anything except that I wanted to down that young hound. Anyhow, I broke the glass, got my hand inside, undid the catch, and was through the curtain before he knew what was happening. I don’t know what he thought when he saw me. His face was almost worth it⁠—sheer amazement and terror. He was just bringing up his pistol when I dropped on him and got his wrist. Then there was a bit of a struggle; but he hadn’t a chance against me. I shot him twice in the body and when he dropped, with blood coming from his mouth, I knew I’d got him in the lung, and I didn’t bother further about him. He seemed done for. I hoped he was.”</p>
			<p>Markfield’s voice in the last few sentences had expressed the bitterness of his emotions; but when he continued, he made a successful effort to keep his tone level.</p>
			<p>“One thinks quick enough in a tight corner. First thing I did was to look at Yvonne.”</p>
			<p>He shrugged his shoulders to express what he seemed unable to put into words.</p>
			<p>“That dream was done for. The only thing to do was to clear myself. I had another look at Hassendean. He seemed to have had his gruel. I’d a notion of shooting him again, just to make sure, but it didn’t seem worth while. Besides, there had been row enough already. A fourth shot might draw some passer-by. So I left him. I picked up the pistol and cleaned my finger-marks off it before putting it on the floor again. Then I did the same for the window-hasp. These were the only two things I’d touched, so I wasn’t leaving traces.</p>
			<p>“Then I remembered something. Silverdale was always leaving his cigarette holder lying about the lab. He’d put it down on a bench or a desk and wander off, leaving the cigarette smouldering. That happened continually. That very afternoon, he’d left the thing in my room and I’d pocketed it, meaning to give it back to him when I saw him again. There it was, in my vest-pocket.</p>
			<p>“In this world, it’s a case of every man for himself. My business was to get out of the hole I was in. If Silverdale got into a hole himself, it was his affair to get out of it. Besides, he’d probably have an alibi, whereas I hadn’t. In any case, the more tangled the business was, the better chance you fellows had of getting off my scent. If the whole story came out, I didn’t see how I was to persuade a jury it had been pure self-defence when I knew myself that it wasn’t that really. Besides, there were these infernal love-letters waiting at Yvonne’s house, all ready for the police and pointing straight to me as a factor in the affair. I’d have had awkward questions to answer about the contents of them.</p>
			<p>“The net result was that I cleaned Silverdale’s cigarette-holder with my handkerchief to take off any finger-prints; and I dropped it on the floor to amuse you people. It had that fly in the amber⁠—absolutely unique and easily identifiable.</p>
			<p>“Then I switched off the lights, got out of the window again, closed it behind me in case it should attract a passer-by. I used my handkerchief to grip the hasp when I closed it, so as not to leave any finger-prints there. In fact, as I walked down to my car, I felt I’d done remarkably well on the spur of the moment.</p>
			<p>“As I drove in toward Westerhaven, I conned things over; and it struck me I’d be none the worse of seeing someone as soon as I could. My housekeeper was away nursing a sick relation, so no one could swear whether I’d been at home in the evening or not. If I could drop in on someone, there was always the chance of creating some sort of alibi. The bother was, I knew I wasn’t quite normal. That was only natural. But if I called on someone who saw me every day, they might spot that I was a bit on edge and that might lead to anything, you know. Then it flashed into my mind that Ringwood had come here lately. I hadn’t seen him for years. He wouldn’t see anything funny in my manner, even if I was a bit abnormal.</p>
			<p>“I drove to his house, and there I had a bit of luck⁠—a perfect gift from the gods. From a telephone message he got while I was in the room with him, I learned that Silverdale was out that night, one of his maids was in bed, and the maid wanted Ringwood to call at once. One’s mind works quickly, as I told you, and I saw in five seconds what a chance I’d got. I offered to pilot Ringwood over to Heatherfield. That meant I’d a perfectly sound excuse if I was seen in the neighbourhood of the house.</p>
			<p>“I dropped him at the end of Lauderdale Avenue, as I expect he told you. During the run, I’d had time to think over things. There was only one solution that I could see. I had to get hold of these letters, cost what it might. I calculated that Ringwood’s visit wouldn’t be a long one; and as soon as he’d gone, I meant to drop into Heatherfield, silence the maid, and get the packet of letters.</p>
			<p>“I must have run a bigger risk than I intended; for evidently I got into Heatherfield between Ringwood’s visit and yours. Can you wonder I was a bit pleased with my luck, when it all came out? I made the tourniquet while I was waiting about. Then I went up to Silverdale’s house, rang the bell, and asked for Silverdale. Of course he wasn’t there; but the maid knew me and let me in to write a note for him. Once she’d seen my face and recognised me, it was all up with her. One’s own skin comes first. I might have risked it if it hadn’t been that the drawer was locked and I had to burst it open. That meant leaving traces. And, since she knew me, that meant losing the game. So⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He made a gesture as if using the tourniquet.</p>
			<p>“I went home after that and destroyed these letters. Then I sat down to do the hardest bit of thinking I’ve done in my life. Time meant a good deal to me just then, for I had to have everything cut and dried before any questions were asked.</p>
			<p>“Then the notion of a double game came into my mind. Why not follow up the cigarette-holder move and do my best to throw discredit on Silverdale. It was up to him to clear himself. That gave me the notion of anonymous letters. And obviously if I wanted any attention paid to them, I’d have to make a good start. That suggested giving the police the earliest information about the bungalow affair. If they got that from ‘Justice’ then they’d pay real attention to anything else he liked to send them. So I hit on the telegram idea as being the safest and the quickest. And, as a sequel to that, the obvious thing was to make a show in public of being on Silverdale’s side, so that you wouldn’t suspect me of having any possible connection with the anonymous letters.”</p>
			<p>“You overdid it just a trifle,” Sir Clinton commented in a dry tone.</p>
			<p>Markfield made a non-committal gesture, but did not argue the point.</p>
			<p>“Then,” he continued, “just as I thought I’d fixed everything neatly, this creature Whalley descended on me. He’d taken the number of my car at the gate and faked up a yarn about an accident, so that he could get me identified for him. He called on me and started blackmail. I paid him, of course, to keep him quiet. But naturally I couldn’t let him stand in my way after all I’d gone through safely. He wasn’t a very valuable life at the best, I gather.</p>
			<p>“Anyhow, I got him up here one night⁠—my housekeeper was still away⁠—and throttled him without too much trouble. Then I took the body down into the garage, put it into my car, and drove out the Lizardbridge Road a bit before tipping him into the ditch. I left the tourniquet beside his body. It was a specially-contrived one, meant to throw some more suspicion on Silverdale. I forgot to say that I borrowed Silverdale’s lab. coat to wear during the operation, in case of there being any blood. And I tore off a button and left it in Whalley’s hand. Then I put the torn jacket back on Silverdale’s peg, ready for the police.</p>
			<p>“Naturally I was quite pleased to hear that Silverdale had been arrested. That was his look-out, after all. And he seemed to be in trouble over an alibi, which was better news still. The next thing was to clinch the business, if possible.</p>
			<p>“I’ve told you that once upon a time I played some parts in an amateur dramatic show. I was really not bad. And it struck me, after I’d seen you once or twice, Sir Clinton, that I could make myself up into a very fair copy of you. We’re about the same height to start with. I wouldn’t have risked it with anyone who knew both of us; but I’d learned that Avice Deepcar was out of town, and I thought I could manage to take in her maid easily enough.</p>
			<p>“So I raided her place, posing as Sir Clinton Driffield⁠—I’d had some notion of the sort in my mind for a while and had cards printed in London all ready: one of these print-’em-while-you-wait places which left no traces behind in the way of an address or an account. In my raid, I got a valuable document.”</p>
			<p>“It was a clever enough fake, Dr. Markfield,” Sir Clinton said reflectively. “But you left one or two things in it that we took hold of easily enough. By the way, I suppose you simply traced Mrs. Silverdale’s writing from some old letters when you put the faked address on the code advertisements you sent to the newspapers?”</p>
			<p>Markfield nodded.</p>
			<p>“You don’t seem to have missed much,” he admitted.</p>
			<p>He rose slowly to his feet and put down his pipe.</p>
			<p>“I think that’s the whole story,” he said indifferently. “If you’ve got it all down now, Inspector, I’ll sign it and initial it for you. Then I suppose it’ll be a case of ringing up the Black Maria or something like that.”</p>
			<p>He glanced at Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“You wouldn’t care to tell me how you worried the thing out, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said the Chief Constable bluntly. “I don’t feel inclined to.”</p>
			<p>Markfield made a gesture as though regretting this decision. He drew his fountain pen from his pocket, unscrewed the cap deliberately, and moved round the table towards the sheets of paper which the Inspector had spread out for signature. A thought seemed to occur to him as he did so, and he bent forward to the apparatus on the tray. His manner was so unconcerned and the gesture so natural that neither Sir Clinton nor the Inspector thought of interfering before it was too late. Markfield put his hand on the tap of the funnel, and as he did so, his face lighted up with malicious glee.</p>
			<p>“Now!” he exclaimed.</p>
			<p>He turned the tap, and on the instant the whole house shook under a terrific detonation.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
