<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>. The Bungalow Tragedy</h2>
			<p>In the course of his career, Sir Clinton Driffield had found it important to devote some attention to his outward appearance; but his object in doing so had been different from that of most men, for he aimed at making himself as inconspicuous as possible. To look well-dressed, but not too smart; to seem intelligent without betraying his special acuteness; to be able to meet people without arousing any speculations about himself in their minds; above all, to eliminate the slightest suggestion of officialism from his manner: these had been the objects of no little study on his part. In the days when he had held junior posts, this protective mimicry of the average man had served his purposes excellently, and he still cultivated it even though its main purpose had gone.</p>
			<p>Seated at his office desk, with its wire baskets holding packets of neatly-docketed papers, he would have passed as a junior director in some big business firm. Only a certain tiredness about his eyes hinted at the sleepless night he had spent at Heatherfield and Ivy Lodge, and when he began to open his letters, even this symptom seemed to fade out.</p>
			<p>As he picked up the envelopes before him, his eye was caught by the brown cover of a telegram, and he opened it first. He glanced over the wording and his eyebrows lifted slightly. Then, putting down the document, he picked up his desk-telephone and spoke to one of his subordinates.</p>
			<p>“Has Inspector Flamborough come in?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. He’s here just now.”</p>
			<p>“Send him along to me, please.”</p>
			<p>Replacing the telephone on its bracket, Sir Clinton picked up the telegram once more and seemed to reconsider its wording. He looked up as someone knocked on the door and entered the room.</p>
			<p>“Morning, Inspector. You’re looking a bit tired. I suppose you’ve fixed up all last night’s business?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Both bodies are in the mortuary; the doctor’s been warned about the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr>’s; the coroner’s been informed about the inquests. And I’ve got young Hassendean’s papers all collected. I haven’t had time to do more than glance through them yet, sir.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton gave a nod of approval and flipped the telegram across his desk.</p>
			<p>“Sit down and have a look at that, Inspector. You can add it to your collection.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough secured the slip of paper and glanced over it as he pulled a chair towards the desk.</p>
			<p>“ ‘<i>Chief Constable, Westerhaven. Try hassendean bungalow lizardbridge road justice.</i>’ H’m! Handed in at the at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.O.</abbr> at 8:05 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> this morning. Seems to err a bit on the side of conciseness. He could have had three more words for his bob, and they wouldn’t have come amiss. Who sent it, sir?”</p>
			<p>“A member of the Order of the Helpful Hand, perhaps. I found it on my desk when I came in a few minutes ago. Now you know as much about it as I do, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>“One of these amateur sleuths, you think, sir?” asked the Inspector, and the sub-acid tinge in his tone betrayed his opinion of uninvited assistants. “I had about my fill of that lot when we were handling that Laxfield affair last year.”</p>
			<p>He paused for a moment, and then continued:</p>
			<p>“He’s been pretty sharp with his help. It’s handed in at 8:05 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> and the only thing published about the affair is a stop-press note shoved into the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Herald</i>. I bought a copy as I came along the road. Candidly, sir, it looks to me like a leg-pull.”</p>
			<p>He glanced over the telegram disparagingly.</p>
			<p>“What does he mean by ‘Lizardbridge road justice’? There’s no <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">J.P.</abbr> living on the Lizardbridge Road; and even if there were, the thing doesn’t make sense to me.”</p>
			<p>“I think ‘justice’ is the signature, Inspector⁠—what one might term his <i lang="fr">nom-de-kid</i>, if one leaned towards slang, which of course you never do.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector grinned. His unofficial language differed considerably from his official vocabulary, and Sir Clinton knew it.</p>
			<p>“Justice? I like that!” Flamborough ejaculated contemptuously, as he put the telegram down on the desk.</p>
			<p>“It looks rather as though he wanted somebody’s blood,” Sir Clinton answered carelessly. “But all the same, Inspector, we can’t afford to put it into the waste-paper basket. We’re very short of anything you could call a real clue in both these cases last night, remember. It won’t do to neglect this, even if it does turn out to be a mare’s nest.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Flamborough shrugged his shoulders almost imperceptibly, as though to indicate that the decision was none of his.</p>
			<p>“I’ll send a man down to the at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.O.</abbr> to make inquiries at once, sir, if you think it necessary. At that time in the morning there can’t have been many wires handed in and we ought to be able to get some description of the sender.”</p>
			<p>“Possibly,” was as far as Sir Clinton seemed inclined to go. “Send off your man, Inspector. And while he’s away, please find out something about this Hassendean Bungalow, as our friend calls it. It’s bound to be known to the Post Office people, and you’d better get on the local <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.O.</abbr> which sends out letters to it. The man who delivers the post there will be able to tell you something about it. Get the ’phone to work at once. If it’s a hoax, we may as well know that at the earliest moment.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, sir,” said the Inspector, recognising that it was useless to convert Sir Clinton to his own view.</p>
			<p>He picked up the telegram, put it in his pocket, and left the room.</p>
			<p>When the Inspector had gone, Sir Clinton ran rapidly through his letters, and then turned to the documents in the wire baskets. He had the knack of working his mind by compartments when he chose, and it was not until Flamborough returned with his report that the Chief Constable gave any further thought to the Hassendean case. He knew that the Inspector could be trusted to get the last tittle of useful information when he had been ordered to do so.</p>
			<p>“The Hassendeans <em>have</em> a bungalow on the Lizardbridge Road, sir,” Flamborough confessed when he came back once more. “I got the local postman to the ’phone and he gave me as much as one could expect. Old Hassendean built the thing as a <abbr>spec.</abbr>, hoping to get a good price for it. Ran it up just after the war. But it cost too much, and he’s been left with it on his hands. It’s just off the road, on the hill about half-way between here and the new place they’ve been building lately, that farm affair.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, there?” Sir Clinton answered. “I think I know the place. I’ve driven past it often: a brown-tiled roof and a lot of wood on the front of the house.”</p>
			<p>“That’s it, sir. The postman described it to me.”</p>
			<p>“Anything more about it?”</p>
			<p>“It’s empty most of the year, sir. The Hassendeans use it as a kind of summer place⁠—shift up there in the late spring, usually, the postman said. It overlooks the sea and stands high, you remember. Plenty of fresh air. But it’s shut up just now, sir. They came back to town over two months ago⁠—middle of September or thereabouts.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to wake up suddenly.</p>
			<p>“That fails to stir you, Inspector? Strange! Now it interests me devilishly, I can assure you. We’ll run up there now in my car.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector was obviously disconcerted by this sudden desire for travel.</p>
			<p>“It’s hardly worth your while to go all that way, sir,” he protested. “I can easily go out myself if you think it necessary.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton signed a couple of documents before replying. Then he rose from his chair.</p>
			<p>“I don’t mind saying, Inspector, that two murders within three hours is too high an average for my taste when they happen in my district. It’s a case of all hands to the pumps, now, until we manage to get on the track. I’m not taking the thing out of your hands. It’s simply going on the basis that two heads are better than one. We’ve got to get to the bottom of the business as quick as we can.”</p>
			<p>“I quite understand, sir,” Flamborough acknowledged without pique. “There’s no grudge in the matter. I’m only afraid that this business is a practical joke and you’ll be wasting your time.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton dissented from the last statement with a movement of his hand.</p>
			<p>“By the way,” he added, “we ought to take a doctor with us. If there’s anything in the thing at all, I’ve a feeling that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice hasn’t disturbed us for a trifle. Let’s see. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Steel will have his hands full with things just now; we’ll need to get someone else. That Ringwood man has his wits about him, from what I saw of him. Ring him up, Inspector, and ask him if he can spare the time. Tell him what it’s about, and if he’s the sportsman I take him for, he’ll come if he can manage it. Tell him we’ll call for him in ten minutes and bring him home again as quick as we can. And get them to bring my car round now.”</p>
			<p>Twenty minutes later, as they passed up an avenue, Sir Clinton turned to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood:</p>
			<p>“Recognise it, doctor?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Never seen it before to my knowledge.”</p>
			<p>“You were here last night, though. Look, there’s Ivy Lodge.”</p>
			<p>“So I see by the name on the gate-post. But remember it’s the first time I’ve seen the house itself. The fog hid everything last night.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton swung the car to the left at the end of the avenue.</p>
			<p>“We shan’t be long now. It’s a straight road out from here to the place we’re bound for.”</p>
			<p>As they reached the outskirts of Westerhaven, Sir Clinton increased his speed, and in a very short time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood found himself approaching a long low bungalow which faced the sea-view at a little distance from the road. It had been built in the shelter of a plantation, the trees of which dominated it on one side; and the garden was dotted with clumps of quick-growing shrubs which helped to give it the appearance of maturity.</p>
			<p>Inspector Flamborough stepped down from the back seat of the car as Sir Clinton drew up.</p>
			<p>“The gate’s not locked,” he reported, as he went up to it. “Just wait a moment, sir, while I have a look at the surface of the drive.”</p>
			<p>He walked a short distance towards the house, with his eyes on the ground; then he returned and swung the leaves of the gate open for the car to pass.</p>
			<p>“You can drive in, sir,” he reported. “The ground was hard last night, you remember; and there isn’t a sign of anything in the way of footmarks or wheel-prints to be seen there.”</p>
			<p>As the car passed him, he swung himself aboard again; and Sir Clinton drove up to near the house.</p>
			<p>“We’ll get down here, I think, and walk the rest,” he proposed, switching off his engine. “Let’s see. Curtains all drawn.⁠ ⁠… Hullo! One of the small panes of glass on that front window has been smashed, just at the lever catch. You owe an apology to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice, Inspector, I think. He’s not brought us here to an absolute mare’s nest, at any rate. There’s been housebreaking going on.”</p>
			<p>Followed by the others, he walked over to the damaged window and examined it carefully.</p>
			<p>“No foot-prints or anything of that sort to be seen,” he pointed out, glancing at the window-sill. “The window’s been shut, apparently, after the housebreaker got in⁠—if he did get in at all. That would be an obvious precaution, in case the open window caught someone’s eye.”</p>
			<p>He transferred his attention to the casement itself. It was a steel-framed one, some four feet high by twenty inches wide, which formed part of a set of three which together made up the complete window. Steel bars divided it into eight small panes.</p>
			<p>“The Burglar’s Delight!” Sir Clinton described it scornfully. “You knock in one pane, just like this; then you put your hand through; turn the lever-fastener; swing the casement back on its hinges⁠—and walk inside. There isn’t even the trouble of hoisting a sash as you have to do with the old-fashioned window. Two seconds would see you inside the house, with only this affair to tackle.”</p>
			<p>He glanced doubtfully at the lever handle behind the broken glass.</p>
			<p>“There might be finger-prints on that,” he said. “I don’t want to touch it. Just go round to the front door, Inspector, and see if it’s open by any chance. If not, we’ll smash the glass at the other end of this window and use the second casement to get in by, so as not to confuse things.”</p>
			<p>When the Inspector had reported the front door locked, the Chief Constable carried out his proposal; the untouched casement swung open, and they prepared to enter the room, which hitherto had been concealed from them by the drawn curtains. Sir Clinton led the way, and as he pushed the curtain out of his road, his companions heard a bitten-off exclamation.</p>
			<p>“Not much of a mare’s nest, Inspector,” he continued in a cooler tone. “Get inside.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector, followed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood, climbed through the open casement and stared in astonishment at the sight before them. The place they had entered was evidently one of the sitting-rooms of the bungalow, and the dust-sheets which covered the furniture indicated that the building had been shut up for the winter. In a big arm-chair, facing them as they entered, sat the body of a girl in evening dress with a cloak around her shoulders. A slight trail of blood had oozed from a wound in her head and marked her shoulder on the right side. On the floor at her feet lay an automatic pistol. One or two small chairs seemed to have been displaced roughly in the room, as though some struggle had taken place; but the attitude of the girl in the chair was perfectly natural. It seemed as though she had sat down merely to rest and death had come upon her without any warning, for her face had no tinge of fear in its expression.</p>
			<p>“I wasn’t far out in putting my money on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice, Inspector,” Sir Clinton said thoughtfully, as he gazed at the dead girl. “It might have been days before we came across this affair without his help.”</p>
			<p>He glanced round the room for a moment, biting his lip as though perplexed by some problem.</p>
			<p>“We’d better have a general look round before touching the details,” he suggested, at last; and he led the way out of the room into the hall of the bungalow. “We’ll try the rooms as we come to them.”</p>
			<p>Suiting the action to the word, he opened the first door that came to hand. It proved to be that of a dismantled bedroom. The dressing-table was bare and everything had been removed from the bed expect a wire mattress. The second door led into what was obviously the dining-room of the bungalow; and here again the appearance of the room showed that the house had been shut up for the season. A third trial revealed a lavatory.</p>
			<p>“H’m! Clean towels hanging on the rail?” Sir Clinton pointed out. “That’s unusual in an empty house, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>Without waiting for a minuter examination, he turned to the next door.</p>
			<p>“Some sort of store-room, apparently. These mattresses belong to the beds, obviously.”</p>
			<p>Along one side of the little room were curtained shelves. Sir Clinton slid back the curtains and revealed the stacked house-napery, towels, and sheets.</p>
			<p>“Somebody seems to have been helping themselves here,” he indicated, drawing his companions’ attention to one or two places where the orderly piling of the materials had been disturbed by careless withdrawals. “We’ll try again.”</p>
			<p>The next room provided a complete contrast to the rest of the house. It was a bedroom with all its fittings in place. The bed, fully made up, had obviously not been slept in. The dressing-table was covered with the usual trifles which a girl uses in her toilette. Vases, which obviously did not belong to the normal equipment of the room, had been collected here and filled with a profusion of expensive flowers. Most surprising of all, an electric stove, turned on at half power, kept the room warm.</p>
			<p>“She’s been living here!” the Inspector exclaimed in a tone which revealed his astonishment.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made a gesture of dissent. He crossed the room, and threw open the door of a cupboard wardrobe, revealing empty hooks and shelves.</p>
			<p>“She’d hardly be living here with nothing but an evening frock in the way of clothes, would she?” he asked. “You can look round if you like, Inspector; but I’m prepared to bet that she never set foot in this room. You won’t find much.”</p>
			<p>He stepped over to the dressing-table and examined one by one the knick-knacks placed upon it.</p>
			<p>“These things are all split-new, Inspector. Look at this face-powder box⁠—not been opened, the band’s still intact on it. And the lip-stick’s unused. You can see that at a glance.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough had to admit the truth of his superior’s statements.</p>
			<p>“H’m!” he reflected. “Of course it’s <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale, I suppose, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I should think so, but we can make sure about it very soon. In the meantime, let’s finish going round the premises.”</p>
			<p>The rest of the survey revealed very little. The remainder of the house was obviously dismantled for the winter. Only once did Sir Clinton halt for any time, and that was in the pantry. Here he examined the cups suspended from hooks on the wall and pointed out to Flamborough the faint film of accumulated dust on each of them.</p>
			<p>“None of that crockery has been used for weeks, Inspector. One can’t live in a house without eating and drinking, you know.”</p>
			<p>“A port of call, then?” the Inspector persisted. “She and young Hassendean could drop in here without rousing any suspicion.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps,” Sir Clinton conceded abstractedly. “Now we’ll get <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood to give his assistance.”</p>
			<p>He led the way back to the room through which they had entered the house.</p>
			<p>“She was dead before that shot was fired, of course,” he said as they crossed the threshold. “But beyond that there ought to be something to be seen.”</p>
			<p>“What makes you so sure that the shot didn’t kill her, sir?” the Inspector demanded.</p>
			<p>“Because there wasn’t half enough blood scattered about the place. She was dead when the shot was fired⁠—must have been dead for some minutes, I suspect. There was no heart-action to lift the blood in her body, so consequently it sank under gravity and left her skull nearly empty of it. Then when the shot was fired, only the merest trickle came from the wound. I think that’s right, isn’t it, doctor?”</p>
			<p>“It’s quite on the cards,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood agreed. “Certainly there wasn’t the normal amount of bleeding that one might have expected.”</p>
			<p>“Then the really important point is: how did she come to die. This is where we rely on you, doctor. Go ahead, please, and see what you make of it.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood went over to the arm-chair and began his examination of the dead girl. His glance travelled first to the open eyes, which seemed curiously dark; and a very brief inspection of their abnormal appearance suggested one possible verdict.</p>
			<p>“It looks as if she’d had a dose of one of these mydriatic drugs⁠—atropine, or something of that sort. The eye-pupils are markedly dilated,” he pronounced.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton refrained from glancing at the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“I suppose you couldn’t make a guess at the time of death?” he inquired.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood tested the stiffness of the limbs, but from his face they gathered that it was almost a purely formal experiment.</p>
			<p>“I’m not going to bluff about the thing. You know yourselves that <i lang="la">rigor mortis</i> is only the roughest test; and when there’s an unknown poison to complicate matters, I simply couldn’t give you a figure that would be worth the breath spent on it. She’s been dead for some hours⁠—and you could have guessed that for yourselves.”</p>
			<p>“Congratulations, doctor! There are so few people in this world who have the honesty to say: ‘I don’t know,’ when they’re questioned on their own speciality. Now you might have a look at the wound, if you don’t mind.”</p>
			<p>While <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood was carrying out this part of his examination, Inspector Flamborough occupied himself in a search of the room. An ejaculation from him brought Sir Clinton to his side, and the Inspector pointed to a dark patch on the floor which had hitherto been concealed by one of the displaced chairs.</p>
			<p>“There’s quite a big pool of blood here, sir,” he said tilting the chair so that the Chief Constable could see it better. “What do you make of that?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton looked at him quizzically.</p>
			<p>“Think you’ve caught me tripping, Inspector? Not in this, I’m afraid. That’s not the girl’s blood at all. Unless I’m far out, it’s young Hassendean’s. Now, while you’re about it, will you have a good look for empty cartridge-cases on the floor. There ought to be three of them.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector set to work, industriously grovelling on the floor as he searched under the heavier articles of furniture in the room.</p>
			<p>“Well, doctor, what do you make of it?” Sir Clinton asked, when he saw that Ringwood had completed his examination.</p>
			<p>“It’s plain enough on the surface,” the doctor answered, as he turned away from the body. “She must have been shot at quite close quarters, just above the ear. Her hair is singed with the flame of the powder. The bullet went clean through the head and then into the padded ear-piece of the chair. I expect it’s stuck there. You can see for yourself that the shot didn’t produce any twitch in the body; the position she’s sitting in shows that well enough. I’m quite prepared to bet that she was dead before the shot was fired.”</p>
			<p>“The <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr> will clear that up for us definitely, if the poison can be detected,” Sir Clinton answered. “But these vegetable poisons are sometimes the very devil to spot, if they’re at all out-of-the-way ones.”</p>
			<p>He turned back to the Inspector, who was now on his feet again, dusting the knees of his trousers.</p>
			<p>“I’ve found three cartridge-cases sure enough, sir,” he reported. “Two of them are under that couch over there; the third’s in the corner near the window. I didn’t pick them up. We’ll need to make a plan of this room, I expect; and it’s safest to leave things as they are, so as to be sure of the exact spots.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton signified his approval.</p>
			<p>“On the face of things, judging by the way an automatic ejects its cartridge, one might say that the single case near the window came from the shot that killed the girl. The other two, which landed somewhere near each other, might represent the two shots that made the wounds in young Hassendean’s lung. But that’s mere speculation. Let’s have a look at the pistol, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough put his hand into his waistcoat pocket, stooped down, picked up the pistol gingerly, and drew a rough outline of its position on the floor with a piece of chalk.</p>
			<p>“Try it for finger-prints, sir?” he inquired. “I’ve got an insufflator in the car.”</p>
			<p>Receiving permission, he hurried off to procure his powder-sprayer, and in a few minutes he had treated the pistol with the revealing medium. As he did so, his face showed deepening disappointment.</p>
			<p>“Nothing worth troubling about here, sir. Whoever it was handled this pistol last must have been wearing gloves. There’s nothing to be seen but a few smears of no use to us at all.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed in no wise depressed by the news.</p>
			<p>“Then just open it up, Inspector, and have a look at the magazine.”</p>
			<p>“It’s three shots short of being full, sir, counting the cartridge that must be in the barrel now,” Flamborough explained, after he had slid the magazine from the butt.</p>
			<p>“Then you’ve found all the empty cases corresponding to the number of shots fired from <em>this</em> pistol, at any rate. We can leave someone else to hunt for extras when the plan’s being made. I don’t expect they’ll discover any. Now we’ll⁠—H’m! What’s this?”</p>
			<p>He stepped swiftly across the room and lifted something which had rolled under a little book-case standing on four feet. As he picked it up, his companions saw that it was an amber cigarette holder. Flamborough’s face betrayed some mortification.</p>
			<p>“I could have sworn I looked under there,” he declared.</p>
			<p>“So you did, Inspector; but it happened to be close up to one of the feet of the bookcase, and probably it was hidden from you in the position you were when you lay on the floor. It just happened to be in the right line from where I was standing a moment ago. Now let’s have a look at it.”</p>
			<p>He held it out, handling it by the tip with the greatest precaution to avoid leaving his finger-prints upon the tube. At first sight, it seemed simply a cigarette-holder such as could be bought in any tobacconist’s shop; but as he rotated it between his finger and thumb, the other side of the barrel came into view and revealed a fly embedded in the material.</p>
			<p>“One hears a lot about flies in amber,” Sir Clinton said, “but this is the first time I’ve seen one.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood bent over and examined the imprisoned insect.</p>
			<p>“That ought to be easy enough to identify,” he commented. “I never saw a fly in amber before; and that one, with its wings half-spread, must be fairly well known to most of the owner’s friends.”</p>
			<p>“It may have nothing to do with the case, though,” Inspector Flamborough put in. “It’s quite on the cards that it was dropped there at the time the house was open for the summer. Some visitor may have lost it, for all one can tell. Or it may belong to either of the Hassendeans.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton twisted the little object into a vertical position and peered into the cavity which had received the cigarettes’ ends.</p>
			<p>“It’s not a left-over from summer, Inspector. The tube’s got quite a lot of tarry liquid in it. That would have gone viscid if the thing had been lying there for a couple of months. No, it’s been used quite recently⁠—within the last day or two, certainly.”</p>
			<p>He moved towards the window.</p>
			<p>“Just bring that machine of yours, Inspector, and blow some powder over it, please.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough obeyed; but the application of the powder revealed nothing except a few shapeless blotches on the stem of the holder.</p>
			<p>“Nothing!” Ringwood exclaimed, with more than a tinge of disappointment in his tone.</p>
			<p>“Nothing,” Sir Clinton admitted.</p>
			<p>He handed the holder to Flamborough, who stowed it away safely.</p>
			<p>“We’ve still to overhaul the body,” the Chief Constable suggested. “You’d better do that, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>“Not much help in these modern dresses,” said Flamborough, eyeing the girl’s evening frock with a disparaging glance. “But she ought to have a bag with her, surely.⁠ ⁠… Here it is!”</p>
			<p>He plunged his hand between the body and the chair and withdrew a little bag, which he proceeded to open.</p>
			<p>“The usual powder-box,” he began, enumerating the articles as they came to hand, “Small mirror, silver-mounted, no initials on it. Small comb. Lipstick⁠—been used once or twice. No money. No handkerchief.”</p>
			<p>“You found <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale’s handkerchief in the car last night,” Sir Clinton reminded him.</p>
			<p>“Then I suppose this must be her body, right enough, sir. Well, that seems to be all that’s here.”</p>
			<p>“What about these rings she’s wearing,” the Chief Constable suggested. “See if you can get them off. There may be some inscriptions on the inside; some women go in for that kind of thing.”</p>
			<p>Fortunately the hands of the body were relaxed, and it was possible to remove the circlets from the fingers. Flamborough rose with three rings in his possession, which he examined with care.</p>
			<p>“You’re on the mark there, sir, right enough. Here’s her wedding-ring. It’s engraved ‘7⁠–⁠11⁠–⁠23’⁠—that’ll be the date of her marriage, I suppose. Then on each side of the date are initials. ‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Y. S.</abbr>’⁠—that’s for Yvonne Silverdale, obviously; and ‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. S.</abbr>’⁠—these’ll be her husband’s initials. Then there’s a diamond ring that she was using for a keeper. Let’s see. It’s got the same pairs of initials on each side of the date ‘4⁠–⁠10⁠–⁠23.’ That’ll be her engagement-ring, I expect. H’m! They don’t seem to have given themselves much time for second thoughts if the engagement lasted only a month and three days.”</p>
			<p>He passed the two rings to Sir Clinton and picked the last one from his palm for examination.</p>
			<p>“This is off the little finger. It’s a plain gold signet with Y and S intertwined on it. Evidently it’s <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale right enough, sir. The inscription’s inside⁠ ⁠… H’m! there’s a variation here. The date’s ’15⁠–⁠11⁠–⁠25’ here; but there’s only a single letter at each end: a Y at one side and a B at the other. That’s a bit of a puzzle,” he concluded, glancing at his superior to see if he could detect anything in his face.</p>
			<p>“I agree with you, Inspector,” was all that he elicited for his pains. “Now take off the bracelet, and that string of pearls round her neck. Anything of note on the bracelet?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing whatever, sir,” the Inspector reported after a glance at it.</p>
			<p>“Well, you’d better put these in a safe place when we get back to town. Now does that finish us here?”</p>
			<p>He glanced round the room and his eye was caught by the second window which looked out from the side of the bungalow. The curtains were still undrawn, and he noticed a minute gap through which the outer daylight could pass freely. A thought seemed to strike him as he ran his eyes over the fabric.</p>
			<p>“We’ll just go outside for a minute,” he announced, and led the way through the hall and out of the front door. “Let’s see, that window’s round here, isn’t it. Keep back for a moment.”</p>
			<p>He halted outside the window and scrutinised the ground with care for a few seconds.</p>
			<p>“See that, Inspector?” he inquired. “There aren’t any foot-prints that one could make anything out of; but someone has put his foot on the box edging of the path just in front of the window. It’s quite obviously crushed⁠ ⁠… and freshly crushed, too, by the look of it.”</p>
			<p>Stepping softly on to the flower-bed which lay under the window-sill, he bent down until his eye was level with the chink between the curtains and peered through into the room.</p>
			<p>“That’s interesting,” he said, as he turned again to face his companions. “One gets quite a good view of the room from here; and it looks as if somebody had taken advantage of it last night. Nobody would attempt to look into a shut-up house in the dark, so presumably the lights were on when he took the trouble to put his eye to the crack.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector made no pretence of concealing his delight.</p>
			<p>“If we could only get hold of him. Perhaps he saw the murder actually done, sir.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed disinclined to rejoice too fervently.</p>
			<p>“It’s all pure hypothesis,” he pointed out, rather frigidly.</p>
			<p>Flamborough’s rectitude forced him into a semi-apology for past doubts.</p>
			<p>“You were quite right about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice, sir. He’s been a trump-card; and if we can only get hold of him and find out what he saw here last night, the rest ought to be as easy as kiss-your-hand.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton could not restrain a smile.</p>
			<p>“You’re devilish previous, Inspector, in spite of all I can do. This Peeping Tom may be <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice, or again he may not. There isn’t any evidence either way.”</p>
			<p>He stepped back on to the path again.</p>
			<p>“Now, Inspector, we’ll have to leave you here in charge. It seems to be your usual rôle in these days. I’ll send a couple of men up to relieve you⁠—the fellow who makes our scale-models, too. You can set him to work. And I’ll make arrangements for the removal of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale’s body.”</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir. I’ll stay here till relieved.”</p>
			<p>“Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood and I had better get away at once.”</p>
			<p>They walked round the bungalow to the car. As he drove away, Sir Clinton turned to the doctor.</p>
			<p>“We must thank you again, doctor, for coming out here.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s all right,” Ringwood assured him. “I got Ryder to look after my patients⁠—at least the worst ones⁠—this morning. Very decent of him. He made no bones about it when he heard it was you who wanted me. It hasn’t been a pleasant job, certainly; but at least it’s been a change from the infernal grind of Carew’s practice.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton drove for a few minutes in silence, then he put a question to the doctor.</p>
			<p>“I suppose it’s not out of the question that young Hassendean might have driven from the bungalow to Ivy Lodge with those wounds in his lungs?”</p>
			<p>“I see nothing against it, unless the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr> shows something that makes it impossible. People with lung-wounds⁠—even fatal ones⁠—have managed to get about quite spryly for a time. Of course, it’s quite on the cards that his moving about may have produced fresh lesions in the tissues. What surprises me more is how he managed to find his way home through that fog last night.”</p>
			<p>“That wouldn’t be so difficult,” Sir Clinton rejoined. “This road runs right from the bungalow to the end of Lauderdale Avenue. He’d only to keep his car straight and recognise the turn when he came to it. It wasn’t a case of having to dodge through a network of streets.”</p>
			<p>A thought seemed to occur to him.</p>
			<p>“By the way, doctor, did you notice any peculiar coincidence in dates that we’ve come across?”</p>
			<p>“Dates? No, can’t say I did. What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” the Chief Constable pointed out deliberately, “the date on that scrap from the torn envelope we found in the drawer was 1925, and the figures on that mysterious signet-ring were 5⁠–⁠11⁠–⁠25. It just happened to strike me.”</p>
			<p>His manner suggested that he had no desire to furnish any further information. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood changed the subject.</p>
			<p>“By the way, you didn’t examine the lever handle of the window for finger-prints,” he said, with a note of interrogation in his voice.</p>
			<p>“The Inspector will do that. He’s very thorough. In any case, I don’t expect to find much on the lever.”</p>
			<p>For a few moments Sir Clinton concentrated his attention on his driving, as they were now within the outskirts of Westerhaven. When he spoke again, his remark struck the doctor as obscure.</p>
			<p>“I wish that poor girl who was done in at Heatherfield last night hadn’t been such a tidy creature.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Ringwood stared.</p>
			<p>“Why?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Because if she’d shirked her job and left those coffee-cups unwashed, it might have saved us a lot of bother. But when I looked over the scullery, everything had been washed and put away.”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠ ⁠… you don’t seem to miss much,” the doctor confessed. “I suppose it was what I repeated to you about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale looking queer when she came out of the drawing-room⁠—that put you on the track? You were thinking of drugs, even then?”</p>
			<p>“That was it,” Sir Clinton answered. Then, after a moment he added: “And I’ve got a fair notion of what drug was used, too.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
