<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Nine Possible Solutions</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The police machinery under Sir Clinton’s control always worked smoothly, even when its routine was disturbed by such unpredictable events as murders. Almost automatically, it seemed, that big, flexible engine had readjusted itself to the abnormal; the bodies of Hassendean and the maid at Heatherfield had been taken into its charge and all arrangements had been made for dealing with them; Heatherfield itself had been occupied by a constabulary picket; the photographic department had been called in to take “metric photographs” showing the exact positions of the bodies in the two houses; inquiries had ramified through the whole district as to the motor-traffic during the previous night; and a wide-flung intelligence system was unobtrusively collecting every scrap of information which might have a bearing on this suddenly presented problem. Finally, the organism had projected a tentacle to the relief of Inspector Flamborough, marooned at the bungalow, and had replaced him by a police picket while arrangements were being made to remove <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale’s body and to map the premises.</p>
			<p>“Anything fresh, Inspector?” Sir Clinton demanded, glancing up from his papers as his subordinate entered the room.</p>
			<p>“One or two more points cleared up, sir,” Flamborough announced, with a certain satisfaction showing on his good-humoured face. “First of all, I tried the lever of the window-hasp for finger-prints. There weren’t any. So that’s done with. I could see you didn’t lay much stress on that part of the business, sir.”</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable’s nod gave acquiescence to this, and he waited for Flamborough to continue.</p>
			<p>“I’ve hunted for more blood-traces about the house; and I’ve found two or three small ones⁠—a track leading from the room to the front door. There was less blood than I expected, though.”</p>
			<p>He produced a blood-soaked handkerchief.</p>
			<p>“This was picked up near the corner of Lauderdale Avenue, sir, this morning after the fog cleared away. It has an H in one corner. You remember we found no handkerchief on Hassendean’s body. Evidently he was using this one to staunch his wounds, and he probably let it drop out of the car at the place where it was found. The doctor said there might be very little external bleeding, you remember; and the handkerchief’s mopped up a fair amount of what happened to ooze out.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton again acquiesced, and the Inspector proceeded.</p>
			<p>“I’ve taken the finger-prints from all three bodies, sir. They’re filed for reference, if need be. And I’ve had a good look at that side-window at the bungalow. There’s no doubt that someone must have been standing there; but the traces are so poor that nothing can be done in the way of a permanent record.</p>
			<p>“One can’t even see the shape of the man’s boot, let alone any fine details.”</p>
			<p>“Anything more?” Sir Clinton inquired. “You seem to have been fairly putting your back into it.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough’s face showed his appreciation of the compliment implied in the words.</p>
			<p>“I’ve drafted an advertisement⁠—worded it very cautiously of course⁠—asking <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice to favour us with some further information, if he has any in stock. That’s been sent off already; it’ll be in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Evening Observer</i> to-night, and in both the morning papers to-morrow.”</p>
			<p>“Good! Though I shouldn’t get too optimistic over the results, if I were you, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough assented to this. Putting his hand into his breast pocket he produced a paper.</p>
			<p>“Then I’ve got a report from Detective-Sergeant Yarrow. I sent him down to the at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.O.</abbr> to find out about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice’s telegram. It’s impossible to get a description of the sender, sir. The telegram wasn’t handed in over the counter: it was dropped into a pillar box in the suburbs in a plain envelope, along with the telegraph fee; and when it was taken to the at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.O.</abbr> they simply telegraphed it to our local office round the corner.”</p>
			<p>“H’m!” said Sir Clinton. “There doesn’t seem much likelihood of your advertisement catching much, then. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice is obviously a shy bird.”</p>
			<p>“He is indeed, sir, as you’ll see in a moment. But I’ll finish Yarrow’s report first, if you don’t mind. When he heard this story at the at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.O.</abbr>, he asked for the postman who had brought in the envelope and questioned him. It appears the thing was dropped into the pillar-box at the corner of Hill Street and Prince’s Street. That’s nowhere near the Lizardbridge Road, you remember⁠—quite on the other side of the town.”</p>
			<p>“Five miles at least from the bungalow,” Sir Clinton confirmed. “Yes, go on, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>“The postman made his collection, which included this envelope, at 7 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> this morning. The previous collection from the same box was made at 8 <abbr>p.m.</abbr> last night, Yarrow elicited.”</p>
			<p>“Then all we really know is that the thing was dropped into the box between 8 <abbr>p.m.</abbr> and 7 <abbr class="eoc">a.m.</abbr>”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Yarrow secured the original telegram form,” Flamborough continued with a glance at the paper in his hand. “The envelope had been torn open carelessly and dropped into a waste-basket; but Yarrow succeeded in getting hold of it also. There’s no doubt about its identity, sir. Yarrow ascertained through whose hands the envelope and the enclosure had passed while they were in charge of the Post Office; and he persuaded all these people to let him have their finger-prints, which he took himself on the spot. He then brought all his material back here and had the envelope and its enclosure examined for finger-prints; and the two documents were photographed after the prints had been brought up on them with a powder.”</p>
			<p>“And they found nothing helpful, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing, so far, sir. Every print that came out belonged to the postman or the sorter, or the telegraphist. There wasn’t one of them that could belong to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice.”</p>
			<p>“I told you he was a shy bird, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector put his paper down on the desk before Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“He’s all that, sir. He hasn’t even given us a scrap of his handwriting.”</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable leaned forward and examined the document. It was an ordinary telegram despatch form, but the message: “<q class="telegram">Try hassendean bungalow lizardbridge road justice</q>,” had been constructed by gumming isolated letters and groups of letters on to the paper. No handwriting of any sort had been used.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton scanned the type for a moment, running his eye over the official printed directions on the form as well.</p>
			<p>“He’s simply cut his letters out of another telegram blank, apparently?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Rather ingenious, that, since it leaves absolutely no chance of identification. It’s useless to begin inquiring where a telegraphic blank came from, even if one could identify the particular sheet that he’s been using. He’s evidently got one of these rare minds that can see the obvious and turn it to account. I’d like to meet <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice.”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, it certainly doesn’t leave much to take hold of, does it? Yarrow’s done his best; and I don’t see how he could have done more. But the result’s just a blank end.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton looked at his watch, took out his case and offered the Inspector a cigarette.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, Inspector. We’re talking unofficially now, you’ll note. I think we might do worse than clear the decks in this business as far as possible before we go any further. It may save time in the end.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Flamborough thought he saw a trap in front of him.</p>
			<p>“I’d like to hear what you think of it, sir.”</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable’s smile showed that he understood what was passing in Flamborough’s mind.</p>
			<p>“I’d hate to ask a man to do something I didn’t dare to do myself,” he said, with a faint twinkle in his eye. “So I’ll put my cards on the table for you to look at. If the spirit moves you, Inspector, you can do the same when your turn comes.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector’s smile broadened into something like a grin.</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir. I understand that it’s purely unofficial.”</p>
			<p>“On the face of it,” Sir Clinton began, “two people got their deaths at the bungalow last night. Young Hassendean didn’t actually die there, of course, but the shooting took place there.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough refrained from interrupting, but gave a nod of agreement.</p>
			<p>“Deaths by violence fall under three heads, I think,” the Chief Constable pursued⁠—“accident, suicide, and homicide, including murder. Now at the bungalow you had two people put to death, and in each case the death must have been due to one or other of these three causes. Ever do permutations and combinations at school, Inspector?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” Flamborough confessed, rather doubtfully.</p>
			<p>“Well, taking the possible ways of two people dying one or other of three different deaths, there are nine different arrangements. We’ll write them down.”</p>
			<p>He drew a sheet of paper towards him, scribbled on it for a moment or two, and then slid it across the table towards the Inspector. Flamborough bent over and read as follows:</p>
			<table class="solutions">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<th class="left">Hassendean</th>
						<th class="right"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale</th>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>1.⁠—Accident</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Accident</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>2.⁠—Suicide</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Suicide</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>3.⁠—Murder</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Murder</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>4.⁠—Accident</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Suicide</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>5.⁠—Suicide</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Accident</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>6.⁠—Accident</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Murder</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>7.⁠—Murder</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Accident</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>8.⁠—Suicide</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Murder</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="left">
							<span>9.⁠—Murder</span>
						</td>
						<td class="right">Suicide</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>“Now, since in that table we’ve got every possible arrangement which theoretically could occur,” Sir Clinton continued, “the truth must lie somewhere within the four corners of it.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, <em>somewhere</em>,” said Flamborough in an almost scornful tone.</p>
			<p>“If we take each case in turn, we’ll get a few notions about what <em>may</em> have happened,” Sir Clinton pursued, unmoved by the Inspector’s obvious contempt for the idea. “But let’s be clear on one or two points to start with. The girl, so far as one can see at present, died from poison and was shot in the head after death. Young Hassendean died from pistol-shots, of which there were two. Agreed?”</p>
			<p>“Agreed,” Flamborough conceded without enthusiasm.</p>
			<p>“Then let’s take the cases as we come to them. Case 1: The whole thing was accidental. To fit that, the girl must have swallowed a fatal dose of poison, administered by mischance either by herself or by someone else; and young Hassendean must either have shot himself twice by accident⁠—which sounds unlikely⁠—or else some third party unintentionally shot him twice over. What do you make of that?”</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t sound very convincing, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Take Case <abbr>No.</abbr> 2, then: A double suicide. What about that?”</p>
			<p>“These lovers’ suicide-pacts aren’t uncommon,” the Inspector admitted. “That might be near the truth. And I suppose he might have put a bullet through her head before shooting himself, just in case the poison hadn’t worked.”</p>
			<p>He drew a notebook from his pocket.</p>
			<p>“Just a moment, sir. I want to make a note to remind me to see about young Hassendean’s pistol license, if he had one. I think he must have had. I found a box and a half of ammunition in one of the drawers when I was searching the house after you’d gone.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton paused while the Inspector made his jotting.</p>
			<p>“Now we can take the third case,” he continued, as Flamborough closed his pocket-book. “It implies that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale was deliberately poisoned and that young Hassendean was shot to death intentionally, either by her before she died or by some third party.”</p>
			<p>“Three of them seems more likely than two,” the Inspector suggested. “There’s the man who opened the window to be fitted in somewhere, you know, and there were signs of a struggle, too.”</p>
			<p>“Quite true, Inspector. I suppose you can fit the shot in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale’s head into the scheme also?”</p>
			<p>Flamborough shook his head without offering any verbal comment on the question.</p>
			<p>“Then we’ll take Case 4,” the Chief Constable pursued. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale deliberately poisoned herself, and young Hassendean came by his end accidentally. In other words, he was shot by either <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale or by a third party⁠—because I doubt if a man could shoot himself twice over by accident.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough shook his head again, more definitely this time.</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t sound likely, sir.”</p>
			<p>Then his face changed.</p>
			<p>“Wait a bit, though,” he added quickly: “If that’s what happened, she must have had a motive for suicide. Perhaps someone was on her track, somebody pretty dangerous; and she saw the game was up. I don’t profess to know how that could happen. But if the man on her heels was the fellow who did the work with the tourniquet at Heatherfield last night, she might have thought poison an easier way out of things. It’s a possibility, sir.”</p>
			<p>“It leaves us hunting for the clue to a purely hypothetical mystery, though, Inspector, I’m afraid. I don’t say you’re wrong, of course.”</p>
			<p>“I daresay it’s complicated enough already,” Flamborough admitted without prejudice. “Besides, this Case 4 of yours has another flaw in it⁠—several, in fact. Unless you take the idea I suggested, it’s hard to see why the girl should have had a supply of poison handy at all. It sounds a bit wild. And you’ve got to assume that a third party shot young Hassendean twice by accident, if a third party came into the business at all. To my mind, that won’t wash, sir. It’s not good enough. Whereas if it was a case of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale shooting him by accident, there was no need for her to commit suicide because of that. No one knew she was here. She could simply have walked out of the front door and got clear away with no questions asked. And if she’d already taken poison, she wouldn’t need to shoot herself in the head, would she?”</p>
			<p>“Grave objections,” Sir Clinton admitted. It amused him to see the Inspector entering so keenly into the game. “Now we proceed to Case 5.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Case 5 is just bunkum,” the Inspector pronounced bluntly. “She gets accidentally poisoned; then she gets accidentally shot; then young Hassendean suicides. It’s too thick altogether.”</p>
			<p>“I like the concise way you put it,” Sir Clinton answered with simulated admiration. “So we go on to <abbr>No.</abbr> 6, eh? She was deliberately murdered and he was accidentally shot. What about that?”</p>
			<p>“I’d want to see some motive for the murder, sir, before accepting that as a possible basis. And if she was deliberately poisoned, what was the good of young Hassendean dragging her off to the bungalow? That would throw suspicion straight on to him if he poisoned her.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Flamborough broke off and seemed to think hard for a moment or two.</p>
			<p>“That’s a fresh line,” he exclaimed suddenly. “I’ve been assuming all along that either she or young Hassendean used the poison. But it might have been a third party. I never thought of it in that light, sir.”</p>
			<p>He pondered again, while Sir Clinton watched his face.</p>
			<p>“It might have been someone else altogether, if the poison was a slow-acting one. Someone at Heatherfield perhaps.”</p>
			<p>“There was only one available person at Heatherfield just then,” Sir Clinton pointed out.</p>
			<p>“You mean the maid, sir? Of course! And that might help to account for her death, too. It might be a case of Judge Lynch, sir. Somebody squaring the account without bothering us about it.”</p>
			<p>New horizons seemed to be opening up in the Inspector’s mind.</p>
			<p>“I’ll admit there’s something in this method of yours, after all, sir,” he conceded gracefully.</p>
			<p>“I like your ‘after all,’ Inspector. But at any rate you seem to find the method suggestive, which is something, at least.”</p>
			<p>“It certainly puts ideas into one’s mind that one mightn’t have thought about otherwise. What about the next case?”</p>
			<p>“Case 7? That’s the converse of the last one. He was shot deliberately and she died by accident. What about it?”</p>
			<p>“That would mean, sir, that either she took an overdose of the drug by mistake or someone gave her a fatal dose, ditto. Then either she or a third party shot young Hassendean.”</p>
			<p>“Something of the sort.”</p>
			<p>“H’m! It’s no worse than some of the other suggestions. I wonder, now.⁠ ⁠… She didn’t look like a dope-fiend, so far as I could see; but she might have been just a beginner and taken an overdose by accident. Her eye-pupils were pretty wide-open. That wouldn’t fit in with her snuffing morphine or heroin, but she might have been a cocaine addict, for all we know.⁠ ⁠… This method of yours is very stimulating, sir. It makes one think along fresh lines.”</p>
			<p>“Well, have another think, Inspector. Case 8: he suicided and she was murdered.”</p>
			<p>“That brings us up against the missing motive again, sir. I’d like to think over that later on.”</p>
			<p>“Case 9, then: He was murdered and she committed suicide. What about that?”</p>
			<p>“Let me take it bit by bit, sir. First of all, if he was murdered, then either she did it or a third party did it. If she did it, then she might have premeditated it, and had her dose of poison with her, ready to swallow when she’d shot young Hassendean. That’s that. If a third party murdered young Hassendean, she might have suicided in terror of what was going to happen to her; but that would imply that she was carrying poison about with her. Also, this third party⁠—whoever he was⁠—must have had his knife pretty deep in both of them. That’s one way of looking at it. But there’s another side to the thing as well. Suppose it was one of these suicide-pacts and she took the poison as her part of the bargain; then, before he can swallow his dose, the third party comes on the scene and shoots him. That might be a possibility.”</p>
			<p>“And the third party obligingly removed the superfluous dose of poison, for some inscrutable reason of his own, eh?”</p>
			<p>“H’m! It seems silly, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Of course, unlikely things do happen,” Sir Clinton admitted. “I’m no stickler for probability in crime. One so seldom finds it.”</p>
			<p>Flamborough took his notebook from his pocket and entered in it a copy of Sir Clinton’s classification.</p>
			<p>“I’ll have another think about this later on,” he said, as he finished writing. “I didn’t think much of it when you showed it to me at first, but it certainly seems to be one way of getting a few ideas to test.”</p>
			<p>“Now let’s look at the thing from another point of view,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Assume that young Hassendean and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale were in the room of the bungalow. There were traces of somebody at the side-window, and someone certainly broke the glass of the front window. By the way, Inspector, when you went over young Hassendean’s clothes finally last night, did you find a key-ring or anything of that sort?”</p>
			<p>“He had a few keys⁠—the latchkey of Ivy Lodge, and one or two more.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll need to make sure that the key of the bungalow was amongst them, because if it wasn’t, then he may have had to break in⁠—which would account for the window. But I’m pretty certain he didn’t do that. He’d been up beforehand with these flowers in the afternoon, getting the place ready. It’s most improbable that he hadn’t the key of the front door with him.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll see to it,” the Inspector assured him.</p>
			<p>“In the meantime, just let’s assume that the broken window represents the work of a third party. What do you make of things on that basis?”</p>
			<p>“What is there to make out of them except one thing?” Flamborough demanded. “At the side window you had somebody whom you christened Peeping Tom; at the front window was a second person who got so excited that he broke into the room. You’re not trying to make out that these two characters were filled by one person, are you, sir? There would be no point in Peeping Tom leaving his window and walking round to the front one before breaking in. Either window was good enough for that. He’d no need to shift his ground.”</p>
			<p>“No,” Sir Clinton assured him in a thoughtful tone, “I wasn’t looking at it from that angle. I was merely wondering where <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice came in.”</p>
			<p>“You mean whether he was Peeping Tom or t’other?”</p>
			<p>“Something of that sort,” the Chief Constable answered. Then, changing the subject, he added: “What bits of information are you going to hunt for next, Inspector?”</p>
			<p>Flamborough ran over some points in his mind and cleared his throat before speaking.</p>
			<p>“First of all, I want to know what this poison was, where it came from, and how long it takes to act. I expect to get something from the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr> results, and we can always send some of the organs for analysis.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded his agreement.</p>
			<p>“I think we’ll get two people on to that part of the thing independently. Say a London man and perhaps one of the chemists at the Croft-Thornton Institute here. We’ll need to see this fellow Markfield in any case, just to check the statements that Ringwood gave us, and when we’re doing that we can find out if there’s anyone capable of doing the analysis for us. Perhaps Markfield himself might take it on.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector, seeing that Sir Clinton was waiting for him to continue, proceeded with his list of evidence required.</p>
			<p>“I’ll put Yarrow on to the matter of young Hassendean’s pistol license. That won’t take long to look up, and it will help to clinch the fact that it really was his pistol that we found on the floor. I don’t suppose for a moment that it was brought in from the outside. The loose ammunition in the drawer seems convincing on that point.”</p>
			<p>“I’m quite with you there,” Sir Clinton admitted.</p>
			<p>“Then I want to look into the maid’s affairs and see if she had any grudge against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale. It’s a pity the second maid’s so ill. We can’t get anything out of her for a while, I’m afraid. And I want her for another thing: to see if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Silverdale doped herself at all. But I expect, if she did, that I’ll be able to pick up some hint of it somewhere or other. And of course, if the poison turns out to be a non-dope kind, that line of inquiry drops into a subsidiary place.”</p>
			<p>“Yes?” the Chief Constable encouraged him.</p>
			<p>“Then I’ll send a man up to try the keys we found in young Hassendean’s pocket on the lock of the bungalow door, just to clear up the broken window matter. That won’t take long.”</p>
			<p>“And then?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I suppose I’ll need to make a try at finding out who Peeping Tom was and also your <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Justice.”</p>
			<p>“Quite a lot of suggestions you seem to have extracted from my little list of possibilities, Inspector. I think you owe it an apology for the rather contemptuous way you approached it at first.”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, it’s been more suggestive than I expected, I admit.”</p>
			<p>“One thing’s certain, Inspector. The solution of the affair must lie somewhere on that little table. It’s simply a matter of picking out the proper case. The odds at most are eight to one and they’re really less than that if one discards some of the very improbable combinations.”</p>
			<p>The desk-telephone rang sharply, and Sir Clinton listened to the message.</p>
			<p>“That interests you, Inspector. A report’s come in that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Silverdale came home and has gone down to the Croft-Thornton. He mentioned where he was going to the constable in charge at Heatherfield, and he very thoughtfully suggested that as the Croft-Thornton is quite near here, it would be easy for us to interview him there if we desired to do so. The perfect little gentleman, in fact. Well, what about it, Inspector?”</p>
			<p>“I suppose I’d better go at once,” Flamborough proposed after a glance at his watch.</p>
			<p>“I think I’ll include myself in the invitation,” Sir Clinton volunteered. “And, by the way, you’d better take that fly-in-the-amber cigarette-holder with you, if they’ve finished with it downstairs. Young Hassendean was working at the Croft-Thornton and someone there may be able to identify it for us if it was his. I’m not anxious to trouble his relations in the matter.”</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir,” Flamborough acquiesced. “You’ll want your car. I’ll give the order for it now.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
